Aldrich Killian is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character first appeared in Iron Man vol. 4, #1 (Jan. 2005) and was created by Warren Ellis and Adi Granov.
Guy Pearce portrayed the character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Iron Man 3 (2013).

Publication history
Created by Warren Ellis and Adi Granov, the character first appeared in Iron Man vol. 4, #1 (Jan. 2005).

Fictional character biography
Dr. Aldrich Killian was a brilliant scientist working for the FuturePharm Corporation in Austin, Texas alongside Dr. Maya Hansen. Together they developed Extremis, a Techno-Organic Virus that completely rewrites the body's genetic code, making entire organs more efficient and giving the body healing abilities in an attempt to create a new super soldier with super human strength, speed, endurance, reflexes and the ability to project electricity and breathe fire. He stole a sample and sold it to a terrorist group (based in a slaughterhouse in Bastrop, Texas) with Mallen as a willing test subject. Days later at Futurepharm Corporation offices, Dr. Killian committed suicide at his computer; his suicide note informed Hansen that he had stolen the Extremis serum for an undisclosed purpose.

In other media
Film
Aldrich Killian appears in the 2013 live-action film Iron Man 3, portrayed by Guy Pearce. He is the co-developer of the Extremis virus, and the founder of a think tank. Starting out as a sickly individual snubbed by Tony Stark in the past, he swore revenge. Years later, Killian helped develop Extremis to cure himself, founded a terrorist movement, and posed as the Mandarin to ruin Iron Man, only to be killed by the Extremis-enhanced Pepper Potts. His characterization is an amalgamation of Simon Krieger and Mallen.

Video games
In the Iron Man 3 film tie-in game, A.I.M. transfers the character's subconscious into MODOK (voiced by Nick Sullivan) to continue his plans.
The Iron Man 3 version of Aldrich Killian appears in Lego Marvel Super Heroes, voiced by Robin Atkin Downes. He and the Extremis enforcers accompany the Mandarin in an attack on Avengers Tower, though they are defeated by Iron Man and Captain America.
The Iron Man 3 version of Aldrich Killian appears in Lego Marvel's Avengers, voiced by Greg Miller.

Music
Korean Rapper BewhY referenced Killian in his song "Challan" from his 2019 album The Movie Star.

References
External links
Aldrich Killian at Marvel Wiki
Aldrich Killian at Comic Vine