Alexander Goodwin Pierce is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, usually as a supporting character in stories featuring the espionage agency S.H.I.E.L.D. as an agent.
A re-imagining of the character was portrayed by Robert Redford in the Marvel Cinematic Universe films Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014) and Avengers: Endgame (2019).

Publication history
The character, created by Bob Harras and Paul Neary, first appeared in Nick Fury vs. S.H.I.E.L.D. #3 (August 1988).

Fictional character biography
Alexander Pierce was born on Long Island, New York. He majored at S.H.I.E.L.D. Academy in civilian surveillance, and serves in the Accounting Department before becoming a sleeper agent working in decoding dispatches from HYDRA. After escaping death in an ambush at HYDRA's Hong Kong base, Pierce accompanied Nick Fury to the Himalayas, along with their prisoner Madame Hydra. Unable to withstand the bitter cold, they were seized by the Deltites and brought to S.H.I.E.L.D.'s orbiting satellite. Aided by Madame Hydra, Pierce and a group of S.H.I.E.L.D. agents escaped and took part in the battle that led to the destruction of the Deltites.He later appears as the leader of the Secret Warriors, one of Nick Fury's secret independent teams following Secret War.

Other versions
Mutant X
In the Mutant X reality, Alexander Pierce along other S.H.I.E.L.D. Agents fought Havok and The Six (X-Men) atop the Statue of Liberty where S.H.I.E.L.D. planned to release the Legacy Virus to kill all super-human life.

In other media
Television
Alexander Pierce appeared in the 1998 live-action television film, Nick Fury: Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D., portrayed by Neil Roberts. This version is depicted as a British recruit assigned to the eponymous character following their exile from S.H.I.E.L.D. under Jack Pincer.

Film
Robert Redford portrays Alexander Pierce in live-action films set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. This version is the Secretary of the fictional World Security Council, Nick Fury's close friend, director of a Hydra cell within S.H.I.E.L.D., and the Winter Soldier's handler.

Pierce first appears in the 2014 film Captain America: The Winter Soldier. He masterminds Project Insight ostensibly in an effort to recognize and apprehend criminals and terrorists prior to committing misdeeds via three Helicarriers. In actuality, Pierce's plan is to carry out mass assassinations of citizens recognized as a threat to Hydra based on Arnim Zola's algorithm to force the world into submission. When Pierce learned Fury was investigating Project Insight's confidential files, he dispatched the Winter Soldier to eliminate him and Steve Rogers. However, Pierce's plan is foiled by Rogers, Natasha Romanoff, Sam Wilson, and S.H.I.E.L.D. loyalists before Pierce himself is killed by Fury.
A past version of Pierce appears in the 2019 film Avengers: Endgame. Following the Battle of New York, Pierce sends his Hydra agents to retrieve Loki's scepter and attempts to take custody of Loki and the Tesseract from Tony Stark and Thor.

References
External links
Alexander Goodwin Pierce at Marvel Wiki