Clinton Barton is a character portrayed by Jeremy Renner in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film franchise, based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name and known commonly by his code name, Hawkeye. In the films, Barton is an expert marksman and hand-to-hand combatant, with his preferred weapon being a compound bow. As of 2020, the character is one of the central figures of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, having appeared in five films of the series, and scheduled to headline his own television series.
Jeremy Renner portrays Barton in the films, beginning with an uncredited cameo appearance in the 2011 live-action film Thor. Renner reprises the role in 2012's The Avengers, 2015's Avengers: Age of Ultron, 2016's Captain America: Civil War, and 2019's Avengers: Endgame. He was initially to appear in a fight scene with Captain America in Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014) but it was scrapped due to his other filming commitments. Renner initially said he would appear in Avengers: Infinity War, but did not make the theatrical cut. During the events of that film, he is mentioned, along with Scott Lang, as being under house arrest (due to the events of Captain America: Civil War). In Avengers: Endgame, he initially has a new appearance, visually similar to that of Ronin from the comics. Barton will appear in the Disney+ television series Hawkeye and in the animated series What If...?, with Renner reprising his role in both.

Character origin
Barton, with the alter ego of Hawkeye, was first introduced in Marvel comic books as a reluctant villain, in Tales of Suspense #57 (September 1964). After two more appearances as a villain in Tales of Suspense #60 and #64 (December 1964 and April 1965), Hawkeye joined the ranks of the Avengers in Avengers #16 (May 1965). He then became a perennial member of the team.
In the mid-2000s, Kevin Feige realized that Marvel still owned the rights to the core members of the Avengers, which included Barton. Feige, a self-professed "fanboy", envisioned creating a shared universe just as creators Stan Lee and Jack Kirby had done with their comic books in the early 1960s. After initially offering the role of Barton to Jensen Ackles, who had auditioned for the part of Captain America, Marvel hired Jeremy Renner to portray the character on screen.In April 2019, a limited series focused on Jeremy Renner's Clint Barton / Hawkeye was reported to be in development, with the plot involving Barton passing the mantle of Hawkeye to the character Kate Bishop. The series was officially announced at the 2019 San Diego Comic Con, with the plot taking place following the events of Avengers: Endgame. Hawkeye is set to premiere in late 2021, with Jonathan Igla serving as the series' showrunner. In September 2019, Hailee Steinfeld was announced to be in consideration to portray Kate Bishop.

Characterization
A master archer working as an agent for S.H.I.E.L.D. Renner said it was a very physical role and that he trained physically and practiced archery as much as possible in preparation. About the role, Renner said, "When I saw Iron Man, I thought that was a really kick-ass approach to superheroes. Then they told me about this Hawkeye character, and I liked how he wasn't really a superhero; he's just a guy with a high skill set. I could connect to that". Regarding Hawkeye's sniper mentality, Renner said, "It's a lonely game. He's an outcast. His only connection is to Scarlett's character, Natasha. It's like a left hand/right hand thing. They coexist, and you need them both, especially when it comes to a physical mission". Renner said Hawkeye is not insecure about his humanity. "Quite the opposite, he's the only one who can really take down the Hulk with his [tranquilizer-tipped] arrows. He knows his limitations. But when it comes down to it, there has to be a sense of confidence in any superhero". Renner earned $2–3 million for his role in The Avengers.Whedon said that Hawkeye interacts more with the other characters in Age of Ultron, as opposed to the first Avengers film where the character had been "possessed pretty early by a bad guy and had to walk around all scowly". As the character did not appear in any other of Marvel's Phase Two films, Whedon stated Age of Ultron sheds light on to what the character was doing since the end of The Avengers. Renner described the character as "kind of a loner" and "a team player only 'cause he sort of has to be. He's not really a company man. Captain America can be that guy. In [Age of Ultron] you'll understand why [Hawkeye] thinks the way he thinks".In March 2015, Renner was revealed to be reprising his role as Barton in Captain America: Civil War. On Barton's reasons for joining Rogers' side, Renner said, "Cap was the first guy who called. Let's just get the job done so I can get home to the family", along with feeling an obligation to side with Scarlet Witch, since her brother, Pietro Maximoff / Quicksilver, sacrificed himself to save Barton in Avengers: Age of Ultron. On how he and Barton fit into the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Renner said, "I'm happy to be the ensemble. I'm not scratching or clawing to do a solo movie by any means ... I think [Barton's] a utility guy that can bounce around into other people's universes a little bit".Stephen McFeely described Barton's dark turn in Avengers: Endgame as "a good example of people who had much stronger stories after the Snap". The film's cold open, which features the disintegration of Barton's family, was initially supposed to be in Infinity War following Thanos' snap, however it was moved to Endgame instead, with Markus explaining that it was "going to blunt the brutality of what [Thanos] did." Joe Russo felt it was "a very tragic scene to open the movie with. It's one of the few scenes in the movie that actually makes me tear up when I watch it, because I think about my own family... And then you think about what would happen to you, as a father. You'd become very self-destructive".

Fictional character biography
Working with S.H.I.E.L.D.
In 2011, Barton is introduced as a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent. On a mission, he arms himself with a bow and arrow, preparing to attempt to stop Thor from retrieving Mjolnir in New Mexico.

Battle of New York
In 2012, Barton is working at a remote S.H.I.E.L.D. research facility with Nick Fury when Loki teleports there and uses his scepter to put Barton under mind control and steal the power source known as the Tesseract. They travel to Stuttgart, where Barton steals iridium needed to stabilize the Tesseract's power while Loki causes a distraction. Loki allows himself to be captured and taken to the S.H.I.E.L.D. helicarrier, which Barton attacks. Aboard the helicarrier, Barton fights Natasha Romanoff, who knocks him out, breaking Loki's control. Romanoff and Barton’s friendship is noted and she helps him recover. After Steve Rogers calls for his help, Barton becomes a founding member of the Avengers with Rogers, Romanoff, Tony Stark, Bruce Banner, and Thor. He participates in the Battle of New York against the alien army of the Chitauri and witnesses Loki’s defeat. Afterwards, he and Romanoff drive off together.

Battle of Sokovia and Civil War
In 2015, Barton and the Avengers attack a Hydra facility in Sokovia. However, Barton is seriously injured in the initial battle by Pietro Maximoff and a Hydra weapon, but is healed by Dr. Helen Cho at the Avengers Tower. Barton attends the Avengers' celebratory party at the Tower, in which Sam Wilson and James Rhodes attend. After the party, Barton witnesses Ultron's first attack and his escape. In Johannesburg, Barton and the Avengers track Ultron and try to stop him, but all, except Barton, are enthralled by Wanda Maximoff. Afterwards in order to recover and to lay low, Barton takes the team to hide out at his house in Missouri, where it is revealed that he has a wife named Laura and children named Cooper and Lila. There, Fury arrives and motivates the team to fight against Ultron again. Barton, Romanoff, and Rogers go to Seoul, where Barton transports the sentient body back to the Avengers Tower. He also tracks a captured Romanoff's signal somewhere in Sokovia. After the sentient body called Vision is awakened by Stark, Banner, and Thor, the Avengers go back to Sokovia. There, Barton reunites with Romanoff, participates in the battle against Ultron, convinces Wanda to become an Avenger, and is saved by Pietro who sacrifices his life to shield Barton and a Sokovian child from gunfire. After the battle, Barton goes into retirement and returns home, where he and Laura name their newborn son Nathaniel Pietro Barton, in honor of Romanoff and Pietro.
In 2016, Barton returns from retirement to help Rogers. He goes to the Avengers Headquarters to pick up Wanda, but is confronted by Vision, until Wanda incapacitates him. Barton and Wanda pick Scott Lang up and travel to the Leipzig/Halle airport in Germany to join Rogers, Wilson, and Bucky Barnes. However, they are intercepted by Stark’s team consisting of Stark, Rhodes, Romanoff, Peter Parker, T'Challa, and Vision. After Rogers and Barnes escape, Barton is among those captured and imprisoned in the Raft. Later, Rogers breaks him, Lang, Wilson, and Wanda out, and he and Lang negotiate deals with the U.S. government in accordance with the Sokovia Accords to receive a term of house arrest instead.
In 2018, Barton, still on house arrest, is out having a picnic with his family, but is caught off-guard when Laura, Lila, Cooper, and Nathaniel disintegrate. In between 2018 and 2023, Barton eventually learns what happened becoming a rogue warrior, travelling the world and slaughtering criminals he believes do not deserve to have survived the Snap.

Time Heist
In 2023, Barton goes to Tokyo and kills mob gangsters. There he is reunited with Romanoff, who informs him that they discovered quantum time travel, which would reverse the Snap. Back at the Avengers Headquarters, Barton is reunited with the Avengers and meets Rocket Raccoon and Nebula. He volunteers to be the first to test the quantum tech, and is transported via the quantum realm to his house in an alternate timeline briefly hearing Lila's voice before he is brought back. After the Avengers formulate a plan, Barton and Romanoff travel via the quantum realm to an alternate 2014 timeline. There they travel into space to an alternate version of the planet Vormir to retrieve the Soul Stone, but its keeper, the Red Skull, reveals that it can only be acquired by a person sacrificing someone they love. Romanoff and Barton each volunteer to be the sacrifice for this purpose. However, Romanoff ends up sacrificing herself, allowing Barton to claim the Soul Stone. Upon returning to the present, Barton and the original Avengers hold a silent mourning for Romanoff. After Banner uses Stark's Gauntlet to reverse the Snap, Barton receives a phone call from a restored Laura. Before he can answer, an alternate version of Thanos attacks the Avengers Headquarters. Deep below ground in the rubble, Barton finds the Stark Gauntlet and runs away from the Outriders sent to capture it. He then participates in the final battle against Thanos and his army until Stark sacrifices his life to defeat Thanos and his army. Afterwards, Barton flies to his house in a Quinjet and reunites with a restored Laura, Lila, Cooper, and Nathaniel. Later, Barton and his family attend Stark's funeral. Afterwards, Barton and Wanda reunite and console each other over losing both Romanoff and Vision.

Reception
Screen Rant described Renner's portrayal of Barton as one of the casting decisions that helped the MCU, stating that "Renner channels the right amount of cynicism and earnestness to simultaneously shut down fan criticisms, recognize the ridiculousness of the premise, and somehow make it relatable".

Accolades
See also
Characters of the Marvel Cinematic Universe

References
External links
Hawkeye at Marvel Cinematic Universe Wiki
Marvel Cinematic Universe Hawkeye on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki
Hawkeye (Clint Barton) Biography - Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) - Marvel Studios Official Web Site