Hope Pym is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The daughter of Hank Pym and Janet van Dyne in the MC2 universe, she is the supervillain Red Queen.
Evangeline Lilly portrays a different version of the character, Hope van Dyne, in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Ant-Man (2015) and appears as the successor of the Wasp in the films Ant-Man and the Wasp (2018) and Avengers: Endgame (2019).

Publication history
The character was created by Tom DeFalco and Ron Frenz and first appeared in A-Next #7 (April 1999).

Fictional character biography
After the deaths of their parents, Hope Pym and her twin brother Big Man (Henry Pym, Jr.) became outraged when people began referring to A-Next as the "next generation" of Avengers. Using their parents' fortune, the twins put together the supervillain Revengers team and gained access to the Avengers Mansion via their parents' security codes. When they ambushed A-Next, Hope set about to torture Cassandra Lang, feeling that she's the Avengers' rightful heir. Hope was finally stopped when Henry Jr. prevented her from initiating the mansion's self-destruct sequence, which would have killed both A-Next and the Revengers.

Powers and abilities
As the Red Queen, Hope Pym uses implanted bio-wings to fly. Also, she has bio-electric blasters installed on the gloves on the back of her hands, and extendable claws built into her gloves. However, she apparently does not have the ability to alter her size.

In other media
Film
Evangeline Lilly portrays Hope van Dyne / Wasp in media set within the Marvel Cinematic Universe, with Madeleine McGraw portraying the character as a child in flashbacks depicted in Ant-Man and the Wasp.Hope first appeared in the 2015 film Ant-Man. She is the daughter of Hank Pym and Janet van Dyne, who worked for S.H.I.E.L.D. as Ant-Man and the Wasp respectively. When Hope was seven, Janet seemingly perished in the Quantum Realm while on a mission, which resulted in Hank distancing himself from his daughter and straining their relationship. Hope eventually gained a position on the board of her father's company, Pym Technologies, and voted him out. Sometime later, the company's new head, Darren Cross, revealed he was making significant progress in recreating Hank's Pym Particles. Concerned about the technology's potential military applications, Hope reluctantly allies herself with her father to stop him, with the idea she would use his Ant-Man suit, only for Hank for to bring in former thief Scott Lang to take on his mantle instead. While she was initially resentful of Scott, she gradually warms up to him and eventually enters a relationship with him before making amends with her father. After they defeat Cross, Hank presents Hope an advanced prototype Wasp suit that he and Janet had been working on and suggests that they finish it together.
Hope next appears in the 2018 sequel Ant-Man and the Wasp, in which she has adopted the Wasp identity. As a result of Scott violating the Sokovia Accords in 2016, she and Hank have been on the run for two years all while attempting to create a bridge to the quantum realm to rescue Janet after discovering Scott became quantumly entangled with her. Throughout the mission, Hope and Scott grow closer despite what he did and work together to fight off enemies like Sonny Burch and Ghost. After Scott gets off his house arrest, she, Scott, and Cassie Lang watch a movie on a laptop from their shrunken car. Later, while helping Scott get quantum energy, Hope, Hank, and Janet are disintegrated.
Hope returns in Avengers: Endgame. Hope is restored to life and is brought to join the final battle against an alternate Thanos and his army. Afterwards, she attends Tony Stark's funeral, and returns home where she spends time with Scott and Cassie.

Television
Hope van Dyne / Wasp appears in the fourth season of Avengers Assemble, voiced by Kari Wahlgren. This incarnation is a member of the All-New, All-Different Avengers.
Hope van Dyne / Wasp appears in Disney XD's Ant-Man animated shorts, voiced by Melissa Rauch.

Video games
Hope van Dyne / Wasp appears as a DLC playable character in Lego Marvel's Avengers.
Hope van Dyne / Wasp appears as a playable character in Marvel: Contest of Champions, Marvel: Future Fight, Marvel Strike Force, Marvel Puzzle Quest and Marvel Avengers Academy.

Theme Parks
Hope van Dyne / Wasp appears in the Ant-Man and The Wasp: Nano Battle! attraction at Hong Kong Disneyland, with Evangeline Lilly reprising her role from the films.


== References ==