Kaecilius () is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is depicted as an enemy of Doctor Strange. The character who first appeared in Strange Tales Vol. 1, #130 (March 1965) was created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko.
Kaecilius made his live-action debut in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Doctor Strange, portrayed by Mads Mikkelsen.

Publication history
Kaecilius first appeared in Strange Tales Vol. 1, #130 (March 1965) and was created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko.

Fictional character biography
He was a disciple of Baron Mordo who would deliver messages and even fight Doctor Strange himself if necessary. One of his first missions was kidnapping the Ancient One, which he failed at due to Doctor Strange's interference. At one point, Mordo took possession of him to test the powers of Dormammu. Kaecilius was successful in stealing Doctor Strange's Cloak of Levitation; however by the end of his battle, Doctor Strange used his magic to wipe the knowledge of magic from Kaecilius's mind.Kaecilius and his cohorts, Adria and Demonicus posed as members of Independent Video to interview Doctor Strange so that they can get into the Sanctum Sanctorum. He posed as a cameraman named Joe Crocker, but was found out along with his fellow sorcerers. They once again tried and failed to defeat the Sorcerer Supreme when Adria attempted to use a powerful gem against Strange, but banished herself, Kaecilius and Demonicus to the Purple Dimension.

Powers and abilities
Kaecilius was trained in the mystic arts by his master Baron Mordo.

In other media
Film
Mads Mikkelsen portrays Kaecilius in the 2016 live-action film Doctor Strange. A combination of several antagonists from the comics, Kaecilius was used in the film to drive the introduction and development of bigger villains for the future, including Dormammu and "certain individuals who live in other dimensions". Motivated by the loss of his family to become a Master of the Mystic Arts, Kaecilius became disillusioned with what he considered the Ancient One's hypocrisy, which influenced his choice to serve Dormammu by using the same life-extending ritual his former master used to channel the Dark Dimension's energy. Believing in Dormammu's promise of eternal life, Kaecilius and his Zealot followers proceeded to destroy the Masters of the Mystic Arts' Sanctums so Earth can be consumed by the Dark Dimension. However, Doctor Strange manages to convince Dormammu to renounce his attack on Earth while having the entity honor his promise to Kaecilius. Dormammu agrees to the terms and drags Kaecilius and his surviving followers into the Dark Dimension.

Video games
Kaecilius appears in the mobile game Marvel: Future Fight.
Kaecilius appears in the mobile game Marvel Avengers Academy.
Kaecilius appears as a boss in the mobile game Marvel Puzzle Quest.

References
External links
Kaecilius at Marvel Wiki
Kaecilius at The Appendix to the Handbook of the Marvel Universe