Korg is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer Greg Pak and artist Carlo Pagulayan, the character first appeared in Incredible Hulk vol. 2 #93 during the "Planet Hulk" storyline.Taika Waititi portrays Korg, through the use of motion capture, in the Marvel Cinematic Universe films Thor: Ragnarok (2017), Avengers: Endgame (2019) and will return in Thor: Love and Thunder (2022).

Publication history
Created by Greg Pak and Carlo Pagulayan, Korg was inspired by Thor's origin story and was later retconned in Incredible Hulk #94 into one of the stone creatures that fought Thor in Journey into Mystery #83 released in 1962.

Fictional character biography
Korg is part of the Kronan race seen in Journey into Mystery #83. After his defeat at the hands of Thor when the Stone Men tried to invade Earth, Korg became a prisoner of the Red King on the alien planet of Sakaar. He was forced into slavery by an obedience disk and made to fight for his life in the gladiatorial arenas. Korg was made to kill his brother Margus against his will, a fact that continues to haunt Korg.When the Hulk was exiled to the Red King's planet, Korg became the Hulk's ally after he and five others were victorious during one of the gladiator games that rule on the planet as a form of entertainment. Korg was the first to let the group talk to each other, and after more victories in the game, Korg became a gladiator. Still fighting alongside the Hulk, Korg was part of the group that rebelled against the Red King after the Silver Surfer used his Power Cosmic to destroy the disks that controlled the slaves. The Surfer had also been made a slave by such a disk, but it was destroyed by the Hulk when they were forced to battle (in the film adaptation, it was Beta Ray Bill, not the Silver Surfer, using the lightning powers of his hammer, Stormbreaker, to perform this feat).After the detonation of Sakaar, Korg convinces Hiroim (who has lost hope and wanted to stay and die) to come with him on the space ship. Korg was with the Hulk and the others and managed to knockout Wonder Man. However, after the discovery that Miek had triggered the destruction of Sakaar, Korg and the other surviving Warbound surrendered to S.H.I.E.L.D. custody, only to escape when earthquakes began to tear Manhattan Island apart due to the damage the Hulk had caused. Working with fellow Warbound member Hiroim and Earth hero Thing, Korg was able to heal the damage caused to the island, before he and his fellow Warbound retreated into the sewers.Korg is also featured in World War Hulk: Frontline as a detective of sorts and is partnered up with a New York detective when investigating the death of Arch-E-5912. In the Avengers: The Initiative issue of World War Hulk, Korg is confronted by his fear when Trauma comes to rescue his fellow Cadets: Korg's worst fear is the Thunder god Thor.In the miniseries Warbound, he helps in the defeat of the Leader who has turned a city in the middle of the desert into a new Gamma World but at the cost of Hiroim's life.
During the "World War Hulks" storyline, Bruce Banner calls on Korg's help when Leader and MODOK transform an army and many of Earth's heroes into "Hulks", helping subdue them.During the 2010–2011 "Chaos War" storyline, Korg ends up helping the Hulks and A-Bomb fight a resurrected Abomination and the forces of Amatsu-Mikaboshi. When the Zom part of Doctor Strange is awakened by Amatsu-Mikaboshi, Marlo Chandler ends up using the death fragment to resurrect some of Hulk's allies. One of them is Hiroim as it is shown that Korg and Hiroim had a relationship (although Korg's people have no separate genders).During the 2016 "Civil War II" storyline, Korg was with the Warbound when they receive word that Bruce Banner is dead. When at Bruce's funeral, Korg stated how Hulk wanted to be left alone and how he made allies that were like family to him.When the Skrullduggers were emerging from a portal to Weirdworld in a Roxxon facility, Korg appeared to help the Brood-infected human Blake and Roxxon's Man-Thing in preventing the Skrullduggers from emerging from the portal. This was confirmed when Weapon H and Dario Agger came to check up on Blake and Man-Thing. Three days ago, Korg saves some soldiers from the Skrullduggers. His inner monologue states that he came to Weirdworld after hearing that Hulk is back from the dead. In the present, Korg learns from Dario Agger that the Roxxon soldiers are safe in a bunker in Weirdworld. As Weapon H leads the mission to Weirdworld, they are attacked by a tribe of blue-skinned humanoids called the Inaku who blame them for breaking the Earth and allowing the Skrullduggers to take their queen. After Weapon H frees his fellow captives, he has Korg and Titania stay behind to help Man-Thing fortify the Inaku village in case the Skrullduggers show up while Weapon H, Angel, and Blake go on a stealth mission to the Roxxon outpost. He and Titania help the Inaku set up a pit filled with spikes that are coated in berry poison. When the Skrullduggers attack, Man-Thing, Korg, and Titania assist the Inaku in defending their fortified village from the Skrullduggers until they suddenly go in one direction. Korg, Man-Thing, Titania find Weapon H with the Skrullduggers under Morgan le Fay's control as they attack the Inaku village. Thinking that Weapon H is in a battle frenzy, Korg reminds Titania that Weapon H is part-Hulk. When Morgan le Fay of Earth-15238 shows up and is identified as a queen to the Inaku, Titania and Korg are attacked by Protector Hara, the Skrullduggers, and Weapon H. Korg faces off against Weapon H. Korg and Titania catch up to Weapon H where they find that Dario has transformed into Minotaur. When everyone evacuates through the portal during Minotaur's fight with Morgan le Fay, Korg carries Sonia through the portal. After Dario pays them the terms of their contract, Titania takes Blake, Korg, and Man-Thing out to a burger joint down the street.

Powers and abilities
Like all Kronans, Korg possesses a body made of a durable, silicon-based substance that grants him protection against nearly all forms of physical harm and gives him a rock-like appearance. In oxygen-rich atmospheres, Korg also possesses vast super strength almost comparable to Thing. His mineral state also grants him an extremely prolonged lifespan.
When fighting as a gladiator, he mostly relied on his physical power and extremely durable form, rather than actual fighting skills. He is, however, an experienced military strategist and consummate pragmatist, constantly assessing his environment so he can tell what actions are necessary for his continued survival.

Other versions
Marvel Zombies Return
In Marvel Zombies Return, Hulk, along with the Warbound, reach the moon in hopes to start World War Hulk but instead meet Zombiefied versions of Giant Man and the Immortals. At the start of the battle, Korg is blown to pieces and killed.

What if
In What if: Planet Hulk, Korg is shown devastated that Miek was killed in the destruction of Sakaar not knowing he was the one responsible. He also participates in the conquering of Earth with Caiera as queen.
In What if: World War Hulk, Korg and the rest of Warbound are killed after Iron Man didn't hesitate in using the laser and destroys New York.
In "What if Thor had battled Hulk?", Korg and the rest of the Warbound ended up fighting the Warriors Three until Miek's treachery was known. After Thor had successfully reasoned with Hulk, Korg left with the Warbound to return to Sakaar in order to rebuild it.

In other media
Television
Korg appears in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "Planet Hulk", voiced by Dave Wittenberg.
Korg appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. episode "Planet Leader", voiced by Jonathan Adams. He is shown to be among the Sakaar inhabitants to be controlled by Leader as he is seen among the slaves in the Sakaar mines. Korg blames Skaar for helping Leader conquer Sakaar. During the revolution, Red Hulk convinced Korg to help them free Sakaar from Leader.
Taika Waititi is set to reprise his role as Korg in the Disney+ animated series, What If...?

Films
Korg appears in the Planet Hulk film voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson.
Korg appears in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, voiced and motion-captured by Taika Waititi. This incarnation speaks in a polite, New Zealand accent and says what is naturally on his mind. Waititi based Korg's voice and mannerisms in the movie on very typical Polynesian/Maori New Zealanders, who are usually very soft-spoken and known for using humor.In Thor: Ragnarok, Korg is one of the gladiators forced to battle each other by the cosmic being and ruler of Sakaar, the Grandmaster. When Thor stages his escape, Valkyrie frees Korg, his friend Miek, and the rest of the gladiators as they led a rebellion against the Grandmaster. He welcomes Loki in their escape. Korg aids in the evacuation of Asgard and becomes part of Thor's crew.
Korg later returns in Avengers: Endgame. He is shown to have survived Thanos's attack on the Asgardian lifeboat following Infinity War and is living with Miek and the other Asgardian survivors at New Asgard in Norway for five years after Thanos used the Infinity Gauntlet to wipe out half of the universe. When the Hulk and Rocket Raccoon come to recruit Thor and retrieve the Infinity Stones through time travel, Korg and Miek are participating in a game of Fortnite with Korg dressed in Earth clothes. He is shown to have some grudge with an unseen rival player addressed to as "Noobmaster69". The two later return to assist the Avengers, the Asgardians, the Guardians of the Galaxy, the Ravagers, and Doctor Strange's fellow Sorcerers in the battle against Thanos's forces at the destroyed Avengers headquarters. Korg was seen fighting against Cull Obsidian, together with Drax the Destroyer.
Korg will appear in Thor: Love and Thunder.

Video games
Korg appears as a support character in Marvel Puzzle Quest.
Korg appears as a playable character in Marvel: Contest of Champions.

See also
Planet Hulk
Warbound
World War Hulk

References
External links
Korg at Marvel.com