Natasha Romanoff is a fictional character portrayed by Scarlett Johansson in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film franchise—based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name—sometimes known by her alter ego, Black Widow. Romanoff is a spy and an expert hand-to-hand combatant, trained in the Red Room from childhood. She eventually becomes part of the counter-terrorism agency S.H.I.E.L.D. (Strategic Homeland Intervention Enforcement and Logistics Division), through which the character was introduced to the franchise in Iron Man 2, and then of the Avengers, defending her teammates and the Earth against various threats. The character will headline her own film, Black Widow, which is set to be released on May 7, 2021.

Concept, creation, and casting
Black Widow was initially created as a comic book character named Natasha Romanova, first appearing as a recurring, non-costumed, Russian-spy antagonist in the feature "Iron Man", beginning in Tales of Suspense #52 (April 1964). Five issues later, she recruits the besotted costumed archer and later superhero Hawkeye to her cause. Her government later supplies her with her first Black Widow costume and high-tech weaponry, but she eventually defects to the United States after appearing, temporarily brainwashed against the U.S., in the superhero-team series The Avengers #29 (July 1966). The Widow later becomes a recurring ally of the team before officially becoming its sixteenth member many years later. Her look was substantially revised in The Amazing Spider-Man #86 (July 1970), with shoulder-length red hair (instead of her former short black hair), a skintight black costume, and wristbands which fired spider threads.In 2004, Lionsgate acquired the film rights for Black Widow, and in April announced that a Black Widow motion picture, featuring the Natasha Romanova version, was in the script stage by screenwriter-director David Hayter, with Avi Arad producing. By June 2006, Lionsgate had dropped the project, and the rights to the character reverted to Marvel. Hayter and Marvel tried getting another financier to develop the project, but Hayter "never felt comfortable that we had found a place that was willing to take the movie, and the character, seriously." This left Hayter "heartbroken", but he hoped the film would be made "some day".In January 2009, Marvel entered early talks with Emily Blunt to play Black Widow in Iron Man 2, though she was unable to take the role due to a previous commitment to star in Gulliver's Travels. In March 2009, Scarlett Johansson signed on to play Natasha Romanoff / Black Widow, with her deal including options for multiple films. Johansson then reprised the role in The Avengers (2012), Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014), Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), Captain America: Civil War (2016), Avengers: Infinity War (2018) Captain Marvel (in a brief mid-credits appearance), and in a leading role in Avengers: Endgame (2019). After the release of Age of Ultron, Johansson revealed that the number of films on her contract had been adjusted since she first signed to match the "demand of the character", as Marvel had not anticipated the audience's "great reaction" to the character and her performance.In September 2010, while promoting the home media release of Iron Man 2, Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige indicated interest in producing a solo Black Widow film, and stated that discussions with Johansson had already taken place regarding a Black Widow standalone film, but that Marvel's focus was on 2012's The Avengers.In February 2014, Feige stated that, after exploring Black Widow's past in Age of Ultron, he would like to see it explored further in a solo film, which already had development work done for it, including a "pretty in depth" treatment by Nicole Perlman, who co-wrote Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy (2014). The following April, Johansson expressed interest in starring in a Black Widow film, and said that it would be driven by demand from the audience. That July, Hayter expressed interest in reviving the project for Marvel, and the following month, director Neil Marshall stated that he "would love to do a Black Widow film," saying he felt the character was "really interesting [given] she doesn't have any superpowers, she just has extraordinary skills, and the world that she comes from, being this ex-K.G.B. assassin, I find that really fascinating." In April 2015, Johansson spoke more on the possibility of a solo Black Widow film, seeing the potential to explore the different "layers" of her depicted in the different films so far, but also stating that "right now I think this character is used well in this part of the universe". While promoting Captain America: Civil War the next April, Feige noted that due to the announced schedule of films, any potential Black Widow film would be four or five years away. He added that Marvel was "creatively and emotionally" committed to making a Black Widow film eventually.In July 2016, Joss Whedon, the director of The Avengers and Avengers: Age of Ultron, stated that he was open to directing a Black Widow film, feeling he could make "a spy thriller. Like really do a good, paranoid, 'John le Carré on crack’ sort of thing." In October, Johansson discussed the potential film being a prequel, saying, "you can bring it back to Russia. You could explore the Widow program. There's all kinds of stuff that you could do with it." She did caution she may not want to "wear a skin-tight catsuit" for much longer. The next February, Johansson said that she would dedicate herself to making any potential Black Widow film "amazing. It would have to be the best version that movie could possibly be. Otherwise, I would never do it ... [it would] have to be its own standalone and its own style and its own story." Following the development work done and the public support for a Black Widow film to be made, Marvel ultimately decided that the "best time to move forward with the project" would be at the beginning of the "latest phase" of the MCU in 2020.In January 2018, Jac Schaeffer was hired to write the script. That July, Cate Shortland was hired to direct. Marvel sought a female director for the project, part of a priority push by major film studios to hire female directors for franchises. Cate Shortland had the backing of Johansson, a fan of the director's previous female-starring film Lore (2012), and was hired to direct Black Widow. The Hollywood Reporter reported in October 2018 that Johansson would earn $15 million to appear in the film, an increase from the "low-seven figure salary" she earned for starring in The Avengers. The $15 million was equal to what Chris Evans and Chris Hemsworth each earned in Captain America: Civil War, Thor: Ragnarok, Avengers: Infinity War, and Avengers: Endgame. Despite The Hollywood Reporter confirming the amount from "multiple knowledgable sources", Marvel Studios disputed the accuracy of the numbers while stating that they "never publicly disclose salaries or deal terms." The film was expected to be released in May 2020, but was delayed twice due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with the new release date being May 7, 2021.

Characterization
In Iron Man 2, Romanoff is introduced as Natalie Rushman, an undercover spy for S.H.I.E.L.D. posing as Stark's new assistant. Johansson dyed her hair red before she landed the part, hoping that it would help convince Favreau that she was right for the role. Johansson said that she chose the role because "the Black Widow character resonated with me... [She] is a superhero, but she's also human. She's small, but she's strong... She is dark and has faced death so many times that she has a deep perspective on the value of life... It's hard not to admire her." She stated that she had "a bit of a freak-out moment" when she first saw the cat-suit. When asked about fighting in the costume, Johansson responded "[A] big part of me is like 'can I move in this? Can I run in it? Can I like throw myself over things with this?' And I think just the prep, you just have to put in the hours. That's what I realized is that just putting in the hours and doing the training and repetition and basically just befriending the stunt team and spending all day, every day, just over and over and over and over until you sell it."
In The Avengers, the character's close friendship with Clint Barton is indicated, about which Johansson said, "Our characters have a long history. They've fought together for a long time in a lot of battles in many different countries. We're the two members of this avenging group who are skilled warriors – we have no superpowers. Black Widow is definitely one of the team, though. She's not in the cast simply to be a romantic foil or eye candy. She's there to fight, so I never felt like I was the only girl. We all have our various skills and it feels equal". Regarding her training, Johansson said, "Even though Iron Man 2 was 'one-for-them,' I'd never done anything like that before. I'd never been physically driven in something, or a part of something so big. For The Avengers, I've spent so many months training with our stunt team, and fighting all the other actors, it's crazy. I do nothing but fight—all the time." Johansson earned $4–6 million for the film.
In Captain America: The Winter Soldier, Screenwriter Christopher Markus said that Black Widow was a "great contrast" to Captain America, describing her as "incredibly modern, not very reverent, and just very straightforward whereas Steve is, you know a man from the 40s. He's not a boy scout, but he is reserved and has a moral center, whereas her moral center moves." The Russos added, "She's a character who lies for a living. That's what she does. He's a character who tells the truth. Give them a problem and they'll have different ways of approaching it. She's pushing him to modernize, and he's pushing her to add a certain level of integrity to her life." When asked about Romanoff's relationship with Rogers, Johansson responded, "By a series of unfortunate encounters, they will be in a situation in which their friendship becomes more intimate. They share many similarities because they live on the defensive without relying on anyone. Also, the two have been working for the government throughout their professional careers. With their friendship they begin to question what they want and what is their true identity."
Producer Kevin Feige stated that more of the character's backstory is explored in Avengers: Age of Ultron. Johansson elaborated, "In Avengers 2 we go back... we definitely learn more about Widow's backstory, and we get to find out how she became the person you see. All of these characters have deep, dark pasts, and I think that the past catches up to some of us a little bit." Regarding where the film picks up Widow's story, Johansson felt it was a continuation of what was seen for her character in The Winter Soldier, with the fact that "'[Widow] never made an active choice. [She's] a product of other people's imposition.' That's going to catch up with her. That's bound to have a huge effect. There's got to be a result of that realization... You'll see her actively making some choices in her life, for better or worse." A mixture of close-ups, concealing costumes, stunt doubles and visual effects were used to help hide Johansson's pregnancy during filming.Anthony Russo noted Romanoff's torn allegiances in Captain America: Civil War, saying "her head is with Tony's side of things, but her heart is with Cap in a lot of ways." Johansson added that Romanoff is "looking to strategize her position, putting herself in a place where she is able to let the powers that be fight it out" in order for her to "have a better perspective of what's really going on". Describing her character's situation after the events of Avengers: Age of Ultron, Johansson said, "I think that the Widow's past will always haunt her. She's trying to move forward, she's trying to pick up the pieces of her life". She also said that Romanoff is at a point in her life where she can make choices herself, without having others have a hand in the decision process. On the continuation of the relationship between Romanoff and Rogers from The Winter Soldier, Joe Russo said that they wanted to "test it" by having Romanoff point out to Rogers the mistakes the team have made and convince him "that it might not be as black and white as he sees it" and that the Avengers must "find a way to work within the system so that [they] aren't disbanded".By the events of Infinity War, Johansson said that Romanoff's situation following Captain America: Civil War has been "a dark time. I wouldn't say that my character has been particularly hopeful, but I think she's hardened even more than she probably was before". At the beginning of Avengers: Endgame, Romanoff continues to command several teams from around the galaxy in the Avengers headquarters, which Joe Russo explained resulted from her inability to move on from their failure to stop Thanos, saying, "she's doing everything she can to try and hold the community together...She's the watcher on the wall still." On the decision for Romanoff to sacrifice herself for Barton to acquire the Soul Stone to bring back everyone, Joe Russo stated that it was part of a larger theme exploring the desire to sacrifice, compared to the desire to protect in Infinity War; he says, "When she gets to that [Soul Stone] scene, I think she understands that the only way to bring the community back is for her to sacrifice herself." McFeely stated, "Her journey, in our minds, had come to an end if she could get the Avengers back. She comes from such an abusive, terrible, mind-control background, so when she gets to Vormir and she has a chance to get the family back, that's a thing she would trade for." To prepare for the film, Johansson underwent a high-intensity workout regimen, which included plyometrics, Olympic weightlifting and gymnastics, as well as a time-restricted eating diet; all are under the supervision of her longtime trainer, Eric Johnson, with whom she had worked since Iron Man 2 (2010), the film which introduced her character.Johansson described the film, Black Widow as "an opportunity to explore the Widow as a woman who has come into her own and is making independent and active choices for herself, probably for once in her life".

Character biography
Early life
Born in Russia in 1984, Natasha Romanoff was trained as a spy in a secretive academy called the Red Room which involved training as a ballerina as a cover, as well as the eventual sterilization of the students. Eventually, Clint Barton is sent to kill Romanoff, but instead chooses to spare her life and recruit her to S.H.I.E.L.D., enabling Romanoff to escape her previous life as an assassin.

Undercover for S.H.I.E.L.D.
In 2010, after Tony Stark publicly becomes Iron Man and appoints his personal assistant Pepper Potts as CEO of Stark Industries, he hires Stark employee Natalie Rushman to replace Potts as his personal assistant, unaware that Rushman is actually Natasha Romanoff who is undercover. Nick Fury, director of S.H.I.E.L.D., later reveals this to Stark, and Romanoff then helps Stark to thwart the plans of villains Justin Hammer and Ivan Vanko, the latter of whom has remotely taken control of an army of military drones and the armor of Stark's friend James Rhodes. Romanoff successfully defeats Hammer's security forces to return control of the Rhodes' armor, allowing Stark and Rhodes to defeat Vanko and the drones.

Battle of New York
In 2012, Romanoff is being interrogated by Russians, when Agent Phil Coulson contacts her to inform her that Barton has been compromised. Romanoff promptly overcomes the Russians, whom she had only allowed to capture her in order to extract information. After Fury reactivates the "Avengers Initiative", she goes to Kolkata and recruits Bruce Banner to use his expertise to track the gamma signature of the Tesseract. She is introduced to Steve Rogers by Coulson and pilots a Quinjet to Stuggart where Stark and Rogers have a confrontation with Loki. Loki is put him in the Quinjet, although Loki's brother Thor arrives and captures him. Afterwards, Loki is held prisoner on a S.H.I.E.L.D. helicarrier, where Romanoff tricks him into revealing his plan to cause Banner to become the Hulk, but is too late, as Barton and Loki's other possessed agents attack the Helicarrier. This causes Banner to transform into the Hulk[ and chase Romanoff until he is stopped by Thor. Romanoff runs into Barton and reluctantly knocks him unconscious, breaking Loki's mind control. Rogers, Stark, Romanoff, Barton, Thor, and Hulk as the Avengers rally in defense of Loki's next target, New York City. There they fight against the alien race of the Chitauri and ultimately defeat them and Loki. In the end, she and Barton leave together.

Working with Captain America
In 2014, Romanoff and Rogers are sent with S.H.I.E.L.D.'s counter-terrorism S.T.R.I.K.E. team to free hostages aboard a S.H.I.E.L.D. vessel from Georges Batroc and his mercenaries. Mid-mission, Rogers discovers Romanoff has another agenda: to extract data from the ship's computers for Fury. After an attempt on Fury's life, Rogers becomes a fugitive hunted by S.T.R.I.K.E., and meets with Romanoff. Using data in the flash drive, they discover a secret S.H.I.E.L.D. bunker in New Jersey, where they activate a supercomputer containing the preserved consciousness of Arnim Zola. Zola reveals that ever since S.H.I.E.L.D. was founded after World War II, Hydra has secretly operated within its ranks, sowing global chaos with the objective of making humanity surrender its freedom in exchange for security. The pair narrowly escape death when a S.H.I.E.L.D. missile destroys the bunker, and realize that Secretary of Internal Security Alexander Pierce is Hydra's leader within S.H.I.E.L.D. They take shelter with Rogers’ new friend Sam Wilson, who ends up joining them to stop Hydra. To prevent Hydra from using Helicarriers to attack the world's superheroes, Romanoff, disguised as a World Security Council member, disarms Pierce. Fury arrives and forces Pierce to unlock S.H.I.E.L.D.'s database so that Romanoff can leak classified information, exposing Hydra to the public. Romanoff later appears before a Senate subcommittee and then tells Rogers and Wilson that she will be going into hiding.

Battle of Sokovia and Civil War
In 2015, Romanoff and the Avengers attack a Hydra facility in Sokovia where they recover the scepter, and meet Wanda Maximoff and Pietro Maximoff, although Barton gets injured. At the Avengers Tower, Romanoff attends the Avengers’ celebratory party and witnesses Ultron’s first attack. The Avengers go to Johannesburg to stop Ultron, but Wanda subdues Romanoff causing her to see visions of her time at the Red Room. Afterwards, she and the Avengers find refuge at Barton's home, where she is greeted by his children, who call her "aunt". She becomes romantically involved with Banner, but in Seoul, Ultron kidnaps her and takes her to Sokovia. Rescued by Banner, she pushes him off a ledge to force his transformation into the Hulk. She is brought by Hulk to meet up with the Avengers, Wanda, Pietro, and Vision in the battle against Ultron. At the new Avengers Headquarters, Romanoff and Rogers train a new set of Avengers consisting of Wilson, Rhodes, Wanda, and Vision.
In 2016, she joins Rogers, Wilson, and Wanda on a mission in Lagos, Nigeria to stop Crossbones from obtaining a bioweapon, but after a fatal incident there, the passage of the Sokovia Accords comes about. She is present at the Avengers Headquarters when the Accords are introduced to them by Thaddeus Ross over which Stark and Rogers have a falling out over. She consoles Rogers after Peggy Carter's funeral and is present in Vienna where the Accords were to be ratified and survives the bombing that kills T’Chaka, T’Challa's father. She initially sides with Stark's team, accompanying them to stop Rogers's team consisting of Barnes, Barton, Wanda, Scott Lang, and Wilson at Leipzig/Halle Airport in Germany, but due to Romanoff's friendship with Rogers, she allows for him and Barnes to escape. This puts her at odds with Stark and forces her to go into hiding after violating the Accords.

Infinity War
Sometime between 2016 and 2018, Romanoff reconnects with Rogers and Wilson.
In 2018, she, Rogers, and Wilson arrive in Scotland to defend Wanda and Vision from members of the Black Order. They return to the Avengers Headquarters where Romanoff reunites with Banner. She travels with the team to Wakanda to fight against the Outriders and during the battle, she and Okoye team up to defend Wanda from Proxima Midnight. She witnesses the arrival of Thanos, who completes the Infinity Gauntlet. Romanoff is a survivor of the Snap, along with the original Avengers, but is left defeated.
She, the surviving Avengers, and Rocket Raccoon return to the Avengers Headquarters and shortly after meet Carol Danvers. After Stark is brought back to Earth and Rocket detects energy from the planet Titan II, she travels with Danvers, Rocket, Nebula, and the other Avengers into space to Titan II. They find out Thanos had destroyed the Stones, much to their dismay. Returning to Earth, Romanoff leads the Avengers (now including Rocket, Nebula, and Danvers) from the Avengers Headquarters.
In 2023, Lang comes to the Avengers Headquarters and informs Romanoff and Rogers that he has been trapped in the quantum realm, where time passes differently, affording a means to steal the Infinity Stones from the past and reverse the Snap. Romanoff, Rogers, and Lang go to talk to Stark at his new house, but he refuses to help. They meet Banner at a diner who agrees to help them. After a failed attempt using Lang to time-travel in the small quantum tunnel, Stark returns to the team and tells them he devised a device for them. Romanoff travels to Tokyo where she reunites with Barton and brings him back to the Avengers. After making a plan with all the Avengers at the Avengers Headquarters, she and Barton travel via the quantum realm to an alternate 2014 where they travel in space to an alternate version of the planet Vormir. After encountering the Red Skull, and an initial scuffle with Barton over who would sacrifice themselves for the Soul Stone, Romanoff sacrifices her life and falls to her death.

Differences from the comics
Natasha Romanoff in the MCU is a member of the Avengers founded by Nick Fury since the start, while in the comics she is a much later addition, and initially a villain (named Romanova, rather than Romanoff) who is specifically antagonistic to the team. In fact, the first female Avenger in the original Avengers created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby was the Wasp. The MCU version also showed a brief romance with Bruce Banner in Age of Ultron that was also hinted at in later films. No such relationship occurs in the comic books, although the character is shown in the comic books being involved with several other characters, including Captain America, Hawkeye or Winter Soldier. In the films, her relationship with Hawkeye is a close but platonic friendship. The character has also been involved with Matt Murdock in the comics, while the two have never had any interactions the course of their appearances in the MCU.

Reception
David Edelstein of New York Magazine described the presence of the female leads in Iron Man 2 as "a gam-off between Gwyneth Paltrow and Scarlett Johansson in which Paltrow wins on length and then disappears in the glare of her opponent's headlights". Vanity Fair notes that her entrance in that film "famously chose to focus on her desirability rather than her staggering combat skills".A Daily Beast review of the character's role in Age of Ultron lamented that the character had been made to "function as a cog that services the storylines" of the male characters. Vanity Fair described the development of the character across the films as "a trajectory that's been as all over the map as Black Widow's varying hairstyles", stating that she "spent her years in the MCU as an accessory to narratives foregrounding other heroes".Vox notes that in Avengers: Endgame, "Johansson takes Romanoff — usually the dependable, no-frills assassin — into quiet, stoic suffering", while Vanity Fair laments that the film "never gives her or her death room to breathe".

Accolades
See also
Characters of the Marvel Cinematic Universe

References
External links
Black Widow at Marvel Cinematic Universe Wiki
Marvel Cinematic Universe Black Widow on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki
Black Widow (Natasha Romanoff) Biography - Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) - Marvel Studios Official Web Site