Nicholas Joseph Fury is a fictional character portrayed by Samuel L. Jackson in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film franchise, based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name. Prior to taking the role, Marvel incorporated Jackson's likeness into the design of the Ultimate Marvel version of the character.
As of 2020, Fury has appeared in eleven of twenty-three MCU films, beginning with the first MCU film, Iron Man, in 2008, and most recently appearing in Spider-Man: Far From Home in 2019. He will also appear in a leading role for the upcoming Disney+ show Secret Invasion.

Concept, creation, and characterization
Fury originally appeared in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer/artist Jack Kirby and writer Stan Lee, Fury first appeared in Sgt. Fury and his Howling Commandos #1 (May 1963), a World War II combat series that portrayed the cigar-chomping Fury as leader of an elite U.S. Army unit. In 1998, David Hasselhoff portrayed Fury in the Fox television movie Nick Fury: Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D., which was intended to be a backdoor pilot for a possible new TV series, which did not materialize. In 2002, Marvel Comics designed their "Ultimate" version of the character Nick Fury after the likeness of Samuel L. Jackson. However, Marvel Studios initially discussed a potential film role with George Clooney, who turned it down after reviewing some of the comic book source material and finding Fury to be too violent of a character. According to the audio commentary of the 2007 film Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer, director Tim Story said the script originally contained Nick Fury, but the role eventually became that of General Hager (played by Andre Braugher), as having Fury would have forced 20th Century Fox to purchase the rights to that character.In the mid-2000s, Kevin Feige realized that Marvel still owned the rights to the core characters, which included Fury. Feige, a self-professed "fanboy", envisioned creating a shared universe just as creators Stan Lee and Jack Kirby had done with their comic books in the early 1960s. In 2004, David Maisel was hired as chief operating officer of Marvel Studios as he had a plan for the studio to self-finance movies. Marvel entered into a non-recourse debt structure with Merrill Lynch, under which Marvel got $525 million to make a maximum of 10 movies based on the company's properties over eight years, collateralized by certain movie rights to a total of 10 characters, including Nick Fury.Jackson was then offered the role, initially signing a nine-film contract with Marvel to portray Nick Fury in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. In 2019, Jackson confirmed that, while that year's Captain Marvel marked the end of his nine-film contract with Marvel, he would continue to portray Fury in future films. Jackson thereafter appeared in a cameo in Avengers: Endgame, and in a substantial role in Spider-Man: Far From Home.
The MCU version of Nick Fury jettisoned a number of details from the original comic book version. Aside from the original character having been white (a detail already changed in the comics before the MCU came to fruition), the original comic book Nick Fury was a World War II veteran who knew Captain America and led the Howling Commandos, and lost sight in his left eye during a grenade attack in that war. In both the original comic book and the Ultimate Marvel versions, Fury was able to remain active many decades after the war because he aged unnaturally slowly due to regular doses of an Infinity Formula. A popular character over a number of decades, in 2011, Fury was ranked 33rd in IGN's "Top 100 Comic Book Heroes", and 32nd in their list of "The Top 50 Avengers". He has sometimes been considered an antihero.

Appearances
Fury is introduced in the post-credits scene of Iron Man (2008), meeting Tony Stark at his Malibu home to discuss the Avengers Initiative.In Iron Man 2 (2010), Fury sends in Natasha Romanoff to pose as an assistant to and assess Stark to see if he is worth recruiting for the Initiative and helps Stark deal with his palladium illness and Ivan Vanko and at the end of the film hires him as a consultant for the Avengers Initiative.
In Thor (2011), at the end, Fury enlists Dr. Erik Selvig’s help to study the Tesseract.
In Captain America: The First Avenger (2011), at the end, Fury informs Steve Rogers: "You've been asleep, Cap, for almost seventy years."
In The Avengers (2012), Fury appears as a main character and when Loki arrives on Earth to take the Tesseract in order to lead the Chitauri invasion, Fury brings the titular team together. Noting that he does more in The Avengers than in any of the previous films: "You don't have to wait until the end of the movie to see me". About the role, Jackson said, "It's always good to play somebody [who] is a positive in society as opposed to somebody who is a negative. . . I tried to make him as honest to the story and as honest to what real-life would seem." Jackson compared the character to Ordell Robbie in Jackie Brown, calling him "a nice guy to hang out with. You just don't want to cross him". Jackson earned $4–6 million for the film.In 2013 and 2014, Jackson appeared as Fury in two episodes of the MCU spinoff TV series, Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., "0-8-4" (2013) and "Beginning of the End" (2014). In "0-8-4", Fury appears in an end tag to scold Agent Coulson over damage caused to a S.H.I.E.L.D. plane during a fight, and expresses his doubts over the loyalty of Daisy Johnson. In June 2013, Samuel L. Jackson expressed interest in appearing in the show as S.H.I.E.L.D. director Nick Fury, which led to his cameo appearance at the end of this episode. Executive producer Jeph Loeb said "There were obviously a number of places that we thought Nick Fury would have a big impact on the show, but the more we talked about it, [the more we wanted] to get him in very early, so that it would kind of christen the show, legitimize it in its own way". It was a challenge for the showrunners to keep Jackson's cameo a surprise due to "this age of tweets and spoilers".In Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014), an attempt is made on Fury's life by Hydra, which is revealed to have taken over S.H.I.E.L.D. Fury fakes his death and, once Hydra's plan to control the world is foiled, heads to Eastern Europe to hunt down the remaining Hydra cells. Regarding Fury's questionable code of ethics displayed in the film, Jackson said, "Almost everything that comes out of Nick Fury's mouth is a lie in some sense. He has to ask, is he even lying to himself, too? He has a very good idea of what's going on but his paranoia keeps him from believing some of it." Jackson added, "You see Nick Fury the office guy, him going about the day-to-day work of S.H.I.E.L.D. and the politics as opposed to that other stuff. It's great to have him dealing with Captain America in terms of being able to speak to him soldier to soldier and try to explain to him how the world has changed in another way while he was frozen in time. Some of the people who used to be our enemies are now our allies—him trying to figure out, 'Well, how do we trust those guys?' or 'How do we trust the guys that you didn't trust who don't trust you?' And explaining to him that the black and white of good guys/bad guys has now turned into this gray area." McFeely said, "Fury represents an obstacle for Steve in some ways. They don't always agree on how S.H.I.E.L.D. ought to be used." The writers gave Fury a more prominent role in The Winter Soldier, since within a plot featuring S.H.I.E.L.D. being dismantled, Fury would "take the brunt of it". They also intended on depicting a character that had so far been depicted as a self-assured, commanding man as vulnerable, to enhance the sense of danger in the Hydra conspiracy.Fury appears in the Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. season finale, "Beginning of the End", which deals with the aftermath of the events of Winter Soldier.In Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), Fury shows up on Clint Barton's farm to help and motivate the Avengers formulate a plan to stop Ultron from destroying humanity. He and other former agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. use a helicarrier provided to them by Coulson to help the Avengers in the final battle against Ultron. He also appears at the end, helping out at the new Avengers Headquarters. Jackson described the role as a cameo, saying, "I'm just kind of passing by there ... Because, it's another one of those 'people who have powers fighting people who have powers'. That's why I didn't get to New York in The Avengers. There's not a lot I could do except shoot a gun."In Avengers: Infinity War (2018), at the end, Fury and Hill discuss the Avengers' battle in Wakanda and Stark's current status. When Fury begins disintegrating, he uses a modified pager to send a distress signal to Carol Danvers.
In Captain Marvel (2019), which is set in 1995, a younger Fury appears and he is still a low-level bureaucrat. Fury appears without his signature eye patch. Feige explained that Danvers is the first superhero that Fury has come across, which sets him on a path to his role working with heroes in later-set MCU films. Jackson described Fury at this point as a desk jockey, who has not yet become cynical towards bureaucracy and who learns in the film that there are superpowered beings who could help S.H.I.E.L.D. Towards the end, Fury loses sight in his left eye after being scratched by the Flerken/cat Goose, and is inspired to create the Avengers Initiative by Danvers' example, naming the protocol after her old callsign. Jackson added that trusting Danvers plays a key role in his development, as they become "compatriots" throughout the film. Jackson was digitally de-aged by 25 years, the first time Marvel has done this for an entire film.In Avengers: Endgame (2019), a restored Fury appears at Stark's funeral.In Spider-Man: Far From Home (2019), he takes a vacation in space on a Skrull spaceship, having recruited Talos and Soren to replace him and Hill on Earth and give Stark's glasses to Peter Parker.
Fury is indirectly mentioned in WandaVision (2021), having sent a Skrull to tell Monica Rambeau that he wanted to meet with her in space at the S.W.O.R.D. space base.
In August 2020, actor Jeff Ward revealed that Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D series writer DJ Doyle had pitched a post-credits scene for the Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. series finale that was not shot, that featured Ward's character Deke Shaw sitting in a S.H.I.E.L.D. office in the alternate timeline he ends the series trapped in, serving as the organization's Director and wearing an eye patch. Ward added, since it was unclear if Nick Fury was still alive in the alternate timeline, Deke would have worn it because it felt like "a power and cool thing", with Deke ultimately serving as a partial adaptation of the original version of the character.Jackson has portrayed the character in two video game products. Jackson reprised his role as Fury in the 2010 video game adaptation of Iron Man 2, and again in the 2014 video game Disney Infinity: Marvel Super Heroes and its 2015 sequel, Disney Infinity 3.0.Jackson will reprise his role in the upcoming Disney+ animated series What If...?.Fury will return in the live action series Secret Invasion.

Fictional character biography
Early developments
In 1995, Kree Empire Starforce member Vers crash-lands in Los Angeles, drawing S.H.I.E.L.D. agents Nick Fury and Phil Coulson to investigate. In an ensuing Skrull attack, Fury kills a Skrull impersonating Coulson. Skrull commander Talos, disguised as Fury's boss Keller, orders Fury to work with Vers and keep tabs on her. Vers, escaping capture by the Skrull, uses memories they have extracted to bring Fury to the Project Pegasus installation at a U.S. Air Force base. They discover Vers was a pilot presumed to have died in 1989 while testing an experimental jet engine designed by Dr. Wendy Lawson, whom Vers recognizes as a woman from her nightmares. After Fury informs S.H.I.E.L.D. of their location, a team led by Talos disguised as Keller arrives. Fury discovers Talos's ruse and helps Vers escape in a cargo jet with Lawson's stowaway cat Goose. They fly to Louisiana to meet former pilot Maria Rambeau, the last person to see Vers and Lawson alive. Later, Danvers, Talos, Fury, and Rambeau locate Lawson's cloaked laboratory orbiting Earth, where Lawson hid several Skrulls, including Talos's family, and the Tesseract, the power source of Lawson's engine. Danvers is captured by Starforce, and in the subsequent battle, Fury retrieves Goose, who is revealed to be an alien Flerken. Goose swallows the Tesseract and scratches Fury's face, blinding his left eye. Danvers departs to help the Skrulls find a new homeworld, leaving Fury a modified pager to contact her in an emergency. Meanwhile, Fury drafts an initiative to locate heroes like Danvers, naming it after her Air Force call sign, "Avenger".
Later, Fury "became the Deputy Chief of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Bogotá station", where he "proved his leadership mettle" by engineering the rescue of hostages captured by Colombian rebels at the country's embassy, including the daughter of then-S.H.I.E.L.D. Director Alexander Pierce:

Fury came up with a plan to get the hostages out. Pierce nixed the idea, preferring to negotiate with the rebels, but Fury ignored those orders and implemented his plan anyway. Fortunately, all the hostages were freed, and despite being disobeyed, Pierce was impressed with how Fury handled the crisis and promoted him to Director of S.H.I.E.L.D. when he stepped down to take a spot on the World Security Council.

Assembling the Avengers and fighting Hydra
In 2008, Fury visits Tony Stark in his Malibu home and recruits him into the “Avengers Initiative”.
In 2010, Fury approaches Stark at a diner, revealing that Stark's recently acquired new assistant "Natalie Rushman" is S.H.I.E.L.D. Agent Natasha Romanoff and that his father Howard was a S.H.I.E.L.D. founder whom Fury knew personally. Fury explains that Vanko's father Anton and Howard invented the arc reactor together, but when Anton tried to sell it, Howard had him deported. Fury gives Stark some of his father's old material, enabling Stark to synthesize a new element for his arc reactor that ends his palladium dependency. Later, Fury informs Stark that because of his difficult personality, S.H.I.E.L.D. intends to use him only as a consultant.
In 2011, Fury enlists Dr. Erik Selvig to study the Tesseract. In New York City, he overseas the reintroduction of Steve Rogers into society.
In 2012, Fury is present with his colleague and friend Maria Hill at the S.H.I.E.L.D. facility when Loki arrives to steal the Tesseract and take control of Agent Clint Barton and Selvig. Fury calls in Romanoff, Stark, Rogers, and Bruce Banner to fight Loki. Later, Fury uses Coulson's death to motivate the Avengers, now including Thor to work as a team, leading to their stand against Loki and the invading Chitauri army in New York City. When the World Security Council authorizes the nuclear bombing of the city to defeat the invasion, Fury uses a rocket launcher to take out one of the two jets launching for that mission, but is too late to stop the second, which fires a missile that is intercepted by Stark.
After Loki's defeat, Fury authorizes the use of alien technology to resurrect Coulson from death and, in response to the invasion, convinces the Council that the world needs "a quantum surge in threat analysis".
In 2014, he trains Rogers to be a S.H.I.E.L.D agent and proposes Project Insight: three S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarriers armed with spy satellite guided guns, designed to preemptively eliminate threats. The Helicarriers are capable of continuous suborbital flight, due to new Repulsor engines proposed by Stark, their guns can kill 1,000 targets per minute, and the satellites, launched from the Lemurian Star, a S.H.I.E.L.D. vessel, can read a target's DNA anywhere in the world. However, when the project is a few weeks away from completion, Fury grows suspicious about Insight. He hires an Algerian mercenary, Georges Batroc, to hijack the Star as cover to allow Romanoff onto the ship with Rogers to retrieve data regarding Insight. Though Romanoff is successful, Fury is unable to decrypt the data, increasing his suspicions and forcing him to convince Pierce to delay the project. Shortly afterwards, an attempt is made on Fury's life by Hydra, which is revealed to have taken over S.H.I.E.L.D. Fury is apparently killed by their most dangerous assassin, the Winter Soldier, but he is revealed to have faked his death using Tetrodotoxin B, a drug capable of slowing down the heart to 1 beat per minute. Rogers, Sam Wilson, and Romanoff are taken by Hill to see him alive and in a hidden bunker. After it is revealed that Pierce is working for Hydra, Fury reappears to override Hydra's control of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s computer systems, forcing Pierce to unlock S.H.I.E.L.D's database so Romanoff can leak classified information, exposing Hydra to the public. Fury reveals that although Pierce had deleted Fury's retinal scan from the system, Fury had a backup scan of his destroyed other eye. He then tells Rogers, Wilson, and Romanoff that he is to go into hiding in Europe to hunt down more Hydra cells. 
Once Hydra's plan to control the world is foiled, Fury appears to assist S.H.I.E.L.D. agents in the aftermath of those events, rescuing agents Leo Fitz and Jemma Simmons from drowning in the ocean and providing Agent Coulson with the Destroyer gun to take out enemy soldiers, before they confront John Garrett and Deathlok. In the aftermath, Coulson vaporizes Garrett and criticizes Fury for using GH325 to revive him. Fury responds that he values Coulson as much as any Avenger, because he represents the heart and moral center of S.H.I.E.L.D., and declares Coulson the new director of S.H.I.E.L.D., tasking him with rebuilding the organization from scratch, and equips him with a 'toolbox' containing useful data.
In 2015, Fury arrives at Barton's home to help and motivate Stark, Rogers, Romanoff, Banner, and Barton to formulate a plan to stop Ultron. He, Hill, and other former agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. use a helicarrier to help the Avengers in Sokovia during the final battle against Ultron. He later overseas the Avengers transition into the new Avengers Headquarters.

Aftermath of the Infinity War
In 2018, Fury and Hill travel in Atlanta discussing the Avengers’ whereabouts but after Hill disintegrates, Fury uses a pager signalling Danvers, before he disintegrates. 
In 2023, Fury is restored to life and attends Stark's funeral.
Eight months later in 2024, Fury and Hill investigate an unnatural storm in Mexico, and later encounter the Earth Elemental. A super-powered man, Quentin Beck, arrives to fight the creature. Fury later meets with Peter Parker and gives him Stark's glasses, which were meant for Stark's successor. The glasses are equipped with the artificial intelligence E.D.I.T.H., which has access to all databases of Stark Industries, and commands a large orbital weapons supply. Parker rejects Fury's call to arms, opting to rejoin his class, but Fury covertly redirects the school trip's itinerary to Prague, where the Fire Elemental is projected to strike. Ultimately, the Elementals are revealed to be illusions created by Beck, who is defeated, with Maria Hill destroying a drone sent to kill Fury during the climactic battle. Later, the Skrulls Talos and Soren are revealed to have been masquerading as “Fury” and “Hill” the whole time, as directed by the real Fury, who was on vacation on a Skrull spaceship.

Secret Invasion
Reception
In a generally positive review of The Avengers, Associated Press reviewer Christy Lemire wrote that "[t]he no-nonsense Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson), the head of S.H.I.E.L.D.—which had been entrusted with the safety of [the Tesseract]—springs into action to reacquire it by assembling a dream team of superheroes and other sundry bad-asses with specialized skills". Reviewing The Winter Soldier, Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter said that "from a dramatic point of view, the greatest interest lies with Jackson and Redford, two great veterans whose presence lends weight to the fantastical proceedings and whose characters take some interesting twists and turns before it's all over".Fury was noted to have been "largely missing in Phase Three of the Marvel Cinematic Universe", with both Jackson and fans of the franchise being "bummed that Fury was left out of Civil War and Black Panther", though he later had a substantial role in Captain Marvel. Writing for Variety, Owen Gleiberman said of the latter film that the "digitally de-aged Samuel L. Jackson" in Captain Marvel was "done a surprising favor by the visual trickery. He seems different than usual—lighter and perkier".

Accolades
See also
Outline of the Marvel Cinematic Universe
Nick Fury in other media

References
External links
Nick Fury at Marvel Cinematic Universe Wiki
Marvel Cinematic Universe War Machine on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki
At Marvel.com