Okoye is a fictional character, a member of the Dora Milaje in Marvel Comics. The character, created by Christopher Priest and Mark Texeira, first appeared in Black Panther #1 (November 1998) within the comics.
Danai Gurira portrays the character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe films Black Panther (2018), Avengers: Infinity War (2018), and Avengers: Endgame (2019). Gurira will return in the upcoming sequel, Black Panther II (2022).

Publication history
Okoye first appeared in Black Panther #1 (November 1998). She last appeared in Black Panther #62 in 2003 until returning in Black Panther #171. (2018)

Fictional character biography
She joined alongside her friend Nakia to be among T'Challa's wives-in-training. However, when Okoye discovered that T'Challa had no interest in marrying either of them, she immediately came to accept this. She has since stood at T'Challa's side. Okoye accompanied T'Challa when he recruited Queen Divine Justice. She was also with T'Challa when they tested Kasper Cole on whether he was worthy of the Black Panther garb. Okoye herself tested Kasper if he would stay with his pregnant girlfriend or leave her for Okoye.Okoye later appears as the director of the Agents of Wakanda.During the "Empyre" storyline, Okoye is among those that help to deal with the Cotati invasion. While on the Wakandan Helicarrier, she detects plant-based activity in Antarctica as Ka-Zar states that the Savage Land is there. She later assists Thing, Shuri, and the Agents of Wakanda in fighting the Cotati who have breached Wakanda's forcefield.

Skills and abilities
Okoye is highly skilled in multiple forms of combat, and the leader (and General) of the Dora Milaje. She is exceptional in using various Wakandan weaponry and tools, especially skilled in the use of spears. Okoye is a great tactician and military strategist.

In other media
Television
Okoye has a non-voiced cameo in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes. She is a member of T'Challa's Dora Milaje.
Okoye appears in Lego Marvel Super Heroes - Black Panther: Trouble in Wakanda, voiced by Yvette Nicole Brown.

Film
Danai Gurira portrays Okoye in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.In Black Panther, Okoye is the general of the Dora Milaje. She has the utmost respect for T'Challa (Chadwick Boseman) and the nation of Wakanda and is the wife of W'Kabi (Daniel Kaluuya). She stands beside T'Challa for the majority of the film, but is forced to switch her allegiance to Erik Killmonger (Michael B. Jordan) when he usurps the throne. After seeing that T'Challa is alive, and thus still legally King with the personal combat challenge incomplete, she leads the Dora to fight against Killmonger the moment he invalidates his own claim by refusing to continue the challenge. During W'Kabi's fight with M'Baku (Winston Duke), Okoye eventually convinces W'Kabi to stand down causing those fighting alongside him to also stand down.
In Avengers: Infinity War,  Okoye fights alongside Steve Rogers, Natasha Romanoff, Sam Wilson, Bucky Barnes, Bruce Banner, James Rhodes, and Wanda Maximoff in the battle against the Outriders and witnesses the arrival of Thanos. She survives the Snap, but is horrified when T'Challa disintegrates.
In Avengers: Endgame,  Okoye has started working with Romanoff, reporting directly to her and monitoring issues in Africa. Later, she joins the final battle against an alternate Thanos, and attends Tony Stark’s funeral.
She is expected to appear in Black Panther 2.

Video games
Okoye appears in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2. She appears in the "Black Panther" DLC.
Okoye appears in Marvel Avengers Academy voiced by Bindy Cody.
Okoye is a playable character in Marvel Puzzle Quest and Marvel Strike Force.

Tabletop Games
Okoye is available as a character in the game "Marvel Crisis Protocol as part of a two-pack with Shuri (the younger sister of T'Challa). She is a member of the "Wakandans" group.

References
External links
Okoye on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki