Peter Parker is a fictional character portrayed by Tom Holland in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film franchise—based on the character of the same name by Marvel Comics—commonly known by his alter ego, Spider-Man. In the films, Parker is a high school student at Midtown School of Science and Technology who received spider-like abilities after being bitten by a radioactive spider and since then has secretly operated as a vigilante. He is later recruited by Tony Stark and joins the Avengers.
As of 2019, the character is one of the central figures of the MCU, having appeared prominently in five films from his introduction in Captain America: Civil War up to Spider-Man: Far From Home.  In Iron Man 2, director Jon Favreau's son Max appears as a child wearing an Iron Man mask whom Iron Man saves from a drone. This was, retroactively, the introduction of a young Peter Parker to the MCU, as confirmed in June 2017 by Holland, producer Kevin Feige, and Spider-Man: Homecoming director Jon Watts. He is due to star in the upcoming MCU installment Spider-Man: No Way Home.

Concept and creation
Peter Parker first premiered as a comic book character in the anthology comic book Amazing Fantasy #15 (August 1962). Following a surge in teenage demand for comic books, Marvel Comics editor and head writer Stan Lee wanted to create a character with whom teens could identify. Lee cited pulp magazine crime fighter the Spider as an influence, and stated that he was further inspired by seeing a spider climb up a wall—adding in his autobiography that he has told that story so often he has become unsure of whether or not this is true. Lee "wanted the character to be a very human guy, someone who makes mistakes, who worries, who gets acne, has trouble with his girlfriend, things like that". Jack Kirby, meanwhile, had an unpublished character on which he had collaborated with Joe Simon in the 1950s, in which an orphaned boy living with an old couple finds a magic ring that granted him superhuman powers. Lee and Kirby had a story conference, and Lee directed Kirby to flesh out the character and draw some pages. Unsatisfied with Kirby's story direction, Lee turned the project over to Steve Ditko, who designed the character with a costume with a face mask, a clinging power, and wrist-fired webs. Under Kirby's direction, the character "became high-school student Peter Parker, who gets his spider powers after being bitten by a radioactive spider".A tokusatsu (live-action) series featuring an original character named Takuya Yamashiro assuming the mantle of Spider-Man, "Supaidā-Man" was produced by Toei and aired in Japan from 1978 to 1979. The character was featured in a trilogy of live-action films directed by Sam Raimi and starring Tobey Maguire as the titular superhero, with installments released from 2002 to 2007. A third sequel was originally scheduled to be released in 2011, but Sony later decided to reboot the franchise with a new director and cast. The reboot, titled The Amazing Spider-Man, was released in 2012; directed by Marc Webb and starring Andrew Garfield as the new Spider-Man, followed by a sequel in 2014.Following the November 2014 hacking of Sony Pictures' computers, emails between Sony Pictures Entertainment co-chairman Amy Pascal and president Doug Belgrad were released stating that Marvel wanted to include Spider-Man (whose film rights are licensed to Sony) in Captain America: Civil War, but talks between the studios concerning this were believed to have broken down. However, in February 2015, the studios reached a licensing deal for the use of Spider-Man in an MCU film, and reports indicated that the character would indeed appear in Civil War. According to the deal, Sony Pictures would continue to own, finance, distribute, and exercise final creative control over the Spider-Man films. The next month, Marvel Entertainment CCO Joe Quesada indicated that the Peter Parker version of the character would be used, which Feige confirmed in April. Feige also stated that Marvel had been working to add Spider-Man to the MCU since at least October 2014. The following June, Feige clarified that the initial Sony deal does not allow the character to appear in any of the MCU television series, as it was "very specific... with a certain amount of back and forth allowed." The same month, the companies announced that after many auditions, Tom Holland had been cast to play Spider-Man within the MCU. Tom Holland made his debut as Spider-Man in Civil War, before later starring in Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017); directed by Jon Watts. Holland reprised his role as Spider-Man in Avengers: Infinity War (2018), Avengers: Endgame (2019) and Spider-Man: Far From Home (2019).In August 2019, negotiations between Sony and Marvel broke down, leaving the character's future in the MCU uncertain. The following month, however, the companies agreed to a new deal to have Spider-Man return to the MCU, beginning with Spider-Man: No Way Home, to be released on December 17, 2021. Disney will provide 25% of the film's budget and receive 25% of its profit.

Characterization
Tom Holland first appears as Peter Parker in the MCU in Captain America: Civil War, where he is recruited by Tony Stark to help him arrest Captain America and his rogue Avengers. Producer Kevin Feige said that Parker would be torn between superhero ideologies, saying, "Does he want to be like these other characters? Does he want nothing to do with these other characters? How does that impact his experience, being this grounded but super powerful hero? Those are all the things that Stan Lee and Steve Ditko played with in the first 10 years of his comics, and that now we can play with for the first time in a movie." On aligning with Tony Stark, Anthony Russo said that, despite entering the conflict after the two factions have formed and not having much political investment, Parker's choice comes from "a very personal relationship" he develops with Stark. The Russos hoped "to take a very logical and realistic and naturalistic approach to the character" compared to the previous film portrayals. Anthony Russo added that the character's introduction had to fit "that specific tonal stylistic world" of the MCU, as well as the tone established by the directors in Winter Soldier, saying, "It's a little more grounded and a little more hard-core contemporary." That was "coloring our choices a lot" with Parker. On the Spider-Man suit, Joe Russo described it as "a slightly more traditional, Steve Ditko influenced suit," and that the film would explore the way the suit operates, particularly the mechanical eyes.

Appearances
A scene in Iron Man 2 (2010) depicts a young boy in a child's Iron Man mask standing bravely in front of one of Justin Hammer's robots, which takes aim at him. Just in time, the boy is rescued by Tony Stark / Iron Man. Tom Holland confirmed in a 2017 interview that it was retroactively decided that the boy was Peter Parker. Max Favreau, the son of director Jon Favreau, plays the young Peter Parker.
The first reference to Spider-Man within the Marvel Cinematic Universe, following the deal with Sony, is at the end of Ant-Man. According to director Peyton Reed, the reference is made by a reporter to Sam Wilson / Falcon, who is looking for Ant-Man. The reporter states, "Well, we got everything nowadays. We got a guy who jumps, we got a guy who swings, we got a guy who crawls up the walls, you gotta be more specific."
Peter Parker's first on-screen Marvel Cinematic Universe appearance is in Captain America: Civil War (2016), when Tony Stark recruits him to fight alongside his faction of the Avengers. Holland chose not to read the whole Civil War script in order to avoid potentially leaking plot information publicly.
In Spider-Man: Homecoming, directed by Jon Watts, Parker balances his high school life with his duties as Spider-Man, while being mentored by Tony Stark, as he battles an illegal weapons vendor known as the Vulture.
In Avengers: Infinity War, Parker joins Stark, Stephen Strange, Star-Lord, Drax and Mantis in combating Thanos on the planet Titan. He is one of the victims of Thanos' Snap.
In Avengers: Endgame, Parker is restored to life and joins the final battle against an alternate Thanos. He then attends Stark's funeral and returns to high school.
In Spider-Man: Far From Home, Parker travels with his restored classmates to Europe on a summer trip, but returns to superheroics when Nick Fury recruits him to team up with Mysterio against the Elementals. At the end of the film, his identity is revealed by J. Jonah Jameson using footage doctored by Mysterio.
Spider-Man: No Way Home is set to be released on December 17, 2021.

Fictional character biography
Early life
Per Peter Parker's passport, as seen in Spider-Man: Far From Home, he was born on August 27, 2001.                          
In 2010, as a child, Parker attended the Stark Expo, where he is attacked by a drone, but is saved by Iron Man.

Civil War and conflict with Vulture
In 2016, Parker is introduced as a teenager in high school living with his aunt May Parker in Queens, New York. He meets Tony Stark at his apartment, who reveals that he knows Parker is Spider-Man, and recruits him to join his internship. Having been sent to Germany, Parker is given a new Spider-Man suit sent from Stark and is brought to the Leipzig/Halle airport to aid Stark, James Rhodes, Natasha Romanoff, Black Panther, and Vision in the fight against Steve Rogers, Bucky Barnes, Sam Wilson, Wanda Maximoff, Clint Barton, and Scott Lang. Despite this, Parker is a fan of Rogers and upon facing each other, they exchange where in New York they both are from. Following the fight, Stark takes him back home.
Months later, Parker continues to balance his life as a high school student, while performing his duties as the superhero Spider-Man. One night, Parker returns home to find his best friend Ned Leeds in his room who finds out his identity as Spider-Man. Later, Parker and Leeds attend a school party, but Parker promptly leaves and saves Aaron Davis when he attempts to purchase Chitauri weapons from Jackson Brice and Herman Schultz, allowing the dealers to flee, but Parker follows them before being caught by their boss Adrian Toomes. Toomes drops Parker into a lake, and Parker is then saved by one of Stark's suits, who is monitoring Parker through the suit. During a trip to Washington, D.C., Parker and Leeds disable Stark's tracker within Parker's suit. After returning to New York, Parker captures Toomes' new buyer Mac Gargan aboard the Staten Island Ferry, but Toomes escapes and a malfunctioning weapon tears the ferry in half. Parker who is unable to fix the ferry, is assisted by Stark who arrives and saves the passengers. Afterwards, he confiscates Parker's suit as punishment for his recklessness. Later, Parker discovers that Toomes is the father of his high school crush, Liz. During the ride to the school homecoming dance that Parker and Liz prepared to attend together, Toomes, who is driving the two, deduces Parker is Spider-Man. After dropping Liz off at the dance, Toomes threatens Parker to not interfere with his plans. Despite Toomes's warning, Parker abandons Liz to find Toomes, although he is ambushed by Schultz in the school's parking lot. With Leeds's assistance, Parker defeats Schultz and locates Toomes, who has planned to hijack a Damage Control plane transporting weapons to the Avengers. After Toomes's damaged suit explodes, Parker saves Toomes and leaves him to be arrested. Liz is angry with Parker for once again abandoning her, and tearfully informs him that she and her mother will be moving away. Parker later receives a text from Happy Hogan, who is at the school and takes Parker to the Avengers Headquarters. There, Stark congratulates him and offers Parker to join the Avengers, however, he declines. After returning home, Parker finds out that Stark returned his suit and is caught by May in the Spider-Man suit.

Conflict with Thanos
In 2018, while headed on a field trip, Parker sees a spaceship above New York City and asks Leeds to cover for him as he leaves the school bus. He helps Stark fend off Cull Obsidian, who tells him to help Stephen Strange, who is captured by Ebony Maw. Parker follows Maw to his spaceship, prompting Stark to fly into space and rescue Parker. He and Stark rescue Strange and kill Maw, and Stark declares Parker an Avenger. After landing on the planet Titan, they are confronted by Peter Quill, Drax, and Mantis, before realising they are on the same side. To their surprise, Strange witnesses 14,000,605 possible outcomes of the heroes' conflict, in only one of which the heroes are victorious. After Thanos arrives, their plan to get the Gauntlet off of him is unsuccessful after Quill sabotages it. After Thanos throws one of Titan's moons at them, Parker rescues an unconscious Mantis, Quill, Drax, and Nebula. At the end, Parker disintegrates.
In 2023, Parker is restored to life and is brought by Strange via a portal to the destroyed Avengers Headquarters to join the final battle against an alternate Thanos. During the battle, Parker fights Outriders and at one point, carries the Stark Gauntlet before giving it to Carol Danvers. After Stark sacrifices himself to win the battle, Parker attends his funeral and returns to high school.

School vacation
In 2024, Parker, still mourning Stark's death, attends a school summer trip to Europe with Leeds and other classmates, in which he plans to reveal his romantic feelings towards his classmate MJ. During the trip, Parker and his classmates encounter a water monster in Venice, who is defeated by an unknown man named Quentin Beck. Parker is approached by Nick Fury to assist in the battle against the Elementals and appoints Beck as Parker's teammate to defeat them. Fury also gives Parker E.D.I.T.H., an artificial intelligence created by Stark originally for his successor. Parker and Beck defeat the remaining Elementals in Prague. After Beck earns Parker's trust, Parkers hands over E.D.I.T.H. to Beck. However, one night, as Parker attempts to confess his romantic feelings to MJ, she guesses that Parker is Spider-Man, an accusation he denies at first, until the two discover Beck's fraudulence in using hologram projectors to visually create the Elementals, at which point Parker confirms to MJ that he is Spider-Man. Beck reveals that he was a former associate of Stark who was fired for being unstable. Parker travels to Berlin to warn Fury about Beck's fraudulence, only to be tricked by Beck, using his illusion technology. Parker is almost left for dead by Beck and ends up in the Netherlands, where he contacts Happy Hogan. Beck uses E.D.I.T.H. to create a fusion of all the Elementals as a cover to kill Parker's classmates in London. Eventually, Parker defeats Beck and retrieves E.D.I.T.H. Beck is accidentally fatally shot by drones that he had intended to use to attack Parker. After returning to New York, Parker begins his relationship with MJ. After swinging with her through the city, they witnesses a broadcast from J. Jonah Jameson of TheDailyBugle.net, showing doctored footage of Parker and Beck's battle, framing Parker for the drone attack leading to Beck's death, and Beck exposes Parker's identity as Spider-Man, much to Parker's shock.

On the Run
Differences from the comics
The MCU depiction of Peter Parker omits explicit reference to the death of Uncle Ben, whose death was a significant event both in the comic books and in previous film series. Parker's proper Spider-Man suits in the MCU are also designed by Stark, or built by Parker with Stark Industries technology, whereas in the comics Parker designed and constructed his suits entirely by himself.
Another change is Parker's close paternal relationship with Stark. This was partially adapted from J. Michael Straczynski's run on The Amazing Spider-Man (from #519 to #536), the first five issues of the limited series Civil War and the Ultimate Comics where Stark and Parker share a trainer-trainee relationship. Some critics disliked Parker's "reliance" on Stark, as opposed to previous cinematic portrayals of Spider-Man showing the character as more self-reliant.Peter's relationships with Mary-Jane Watson or Gwen Stacy do not exist in the MCU, instead he falls in love with Michelle, a fellow school student after his previous crush Liz Allen moves away.

In other media
Film
An unused scene involving a cameo consisting of Tom Holland's version of Spider-Man, alongside Tobey Maguire's and Andrew Garfield's versions in the 2018 animated film Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse was scrapped from the final version of the film. Tom Holland also spoke in an interview stating that his version of the character was considered to have another minor cameo involving a scene where he walks around blending in within a crowd.

Video games
All of Spider-Man's current suits from the Marvel Cinematic Universe are available in the 2018 Spider-Man game developed by Insomniac Games.

Accolades
Holland has received numerous nominations and awards for his portrayal of Peter Parker.

See also
Characters of the Marvel Cinematic Universe
Peter Parker (Sam Raimi film series)
Peter Parker (The Amazing Spider-Man film series)

Notes
References
External links
Peter Parker (Marvel Cinematic Universe) on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki
Spider-Man at Marvel Cinematic Universe Wiki