Sif is a fictional character portrayed by Jaimie Alexander in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby, who in turn was based on Sif of Norse Mythology. The leading warrior of Asgard and childhood friend and trusted ally of Thor and Loki, she was created for Thor (2011). After reprising the role in Thor: The Dark World (2013), Alexander then signed a deal to return for two episodes of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (2014–2015). Alexander will reprise her role in Thor: Love and Thunder (2022).

Concept and creation
Sif first appeared in Marvel Comics in print in Journey Into Mystery #102 (March 1964). Introduced by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby as a supporting character of Thor, she was featured predominantly in the pages of The Mighty Thor, beginning with issue #136 (January 1967).Alexander was cast in the role in September 2009, Alexander described her character as "one of the guys" and that, "She's a very talented, skilled warrior and can stand on her own against any villain in the film". About her relationship with Thor, she stated, "She is very loyal to Thor and cares a lot about protecting him and protecting Asgard". Stating that she was familiar with the Marvel Comics character before having taken the part, Alexander said the part required hours a day in the gym to attain the character's physique, attributing her previous experience in training to being one of few girls on her Colleyville, Texas, high-school wrestling team.Alexander suffered a severe back injury while on the set of Thor: The Dark World. About the injury, she said, "It was raining, it was dark outside, it was like 5 in the morning—and I went down a metal staircase and slipped and slipped a disc in my thoracic spine and chipped 11 of my vertebrae. I knocked my left shoulder out of place and tore my rhomboid on my right side... It took me out of filming for a month".

Characterization
Regarding the character's depiction in Thor: The Dark World, Alexander stated the film would contain more character development for Sif and further explore the Sif-Thor relationship. Alexander elaborated, "I really tried to bring a little bit more vulnerability in this film. Sif is very much in love with Thor and very much cares about his well-being. So she kicks a lot of butt in this movie but she also opens her heart a lot."Regarding the character's appearances in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. producer Jed Whedon stated "We always have our radar up for ways to tie our series into the Marvel films and bringing in an Asgardian really cements that connection." Referring to the episode title of "Who You Really Are" in relation to Sif, the episode's poster featuring a stylized version of the character, producer Jeffrey Bell stated "I think for all of us, “who you really are” is revealed in these kind of situations. Which side are you on, how do you feel about that, who do you stand with, how do you feel about that? So very much on point with that is Lady Sif, and one of the things on point with that is Daisy Johnson, but one of the things that I think is nice about that title is it also reflects on the rest of the team as well." In September 2015, it was announced that Sif would appear in the Marvel: Future Fight mobile role-playing video game alongside characters from Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D..

Fictional character biography
Thor
In Thor, Sif is present alongside the Warriors Three and Loki at the coronation ceremony of Thor, who she bears romantic interest towards. Later, Sif accompanies Thor to attack Jotunheim for interrupting the coronation, ultimately leading to Thor being banished to Earth. After learning from Loki that it was he who had informed Odin of Thor's unauthorized attack, Sif tries to convince Loki to convince his father to bring Thor back, only for the pair to find Odin to have fallen into Odinsleep, after which point Loki is made King of Asgard. Upon learning Loki has no intention of bringing Thor back to Asgard, Sif travels to Earth herself with the Warriors Three to retrieve Thor and return him to Asgard, later comforting Thor's and Loki's mother Frigga after Loki's apparent death.

Thor: The Dark World
In the following years, leading up to the events of Thor: The Dark World, Sif accompanies Thor and the Warriors Three in fighting alongside the armies of Asgard in regaining control over the Nine Realms after the initial destruction of the Bifrost. After attempting to once again reveal her romantic feelings for Thor and being kindly refused, Sif frees Loki (revealed to be alive and returned to Asgard in The Avengers) from captivity so-as to assist in retrieving the Infinity Stone known as the Aether from the body of Jane Foster, fighting the armies of Asgard to a standstill to allow Thor and Loki to escape together. Later, after Loki has taken on Odin's guise, Sif delivers the Aether to the Collector on Knowhere on Loki's order, stating it as unwise to keep two Infinity Stones in the same place.

Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.
Sif appears in the first and second seasons of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.. In "Yes Men", Sif is sent to Earth by Loki (disguised as Odin) on a mission to retrieve an escaped Lorelei, during the course of which learning of the resurrection of Phil Coulson after the events of The Avengers. After capturing Lorelei with Coulson's help, Sif promises to keep Coulson's survival a secret from Thor until he is ready to tell him himself. In "Who You Really Are", Sif crashlands on Earth after she is rendered amnesiac by a Kree while both are hunting Inhumans. After having her memories restored and learning Inhumans can be benelovent, Sif returns to Asgard with the Kree as her prisoner, after wiping his memories of Inhumans herself.

2017–2023 time period
Sif does not appear in Thor: Ragnarok, but it is mentioned when she returned that Loki (in Odin's guise) exiled her off of Asgard. She does not appear in Avengers: Infinity War and Avengers: Endgame either, however Joe Russo confirmed that she was a victim of the Blip.

Thor: Love and Thunder
Sif will return in the upcoming film Thor: Love and Thunder (2022).

See also
Characters of the Marvel Cinematic Universe


== References ==