Star-Lord (Peter Jason Quill) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character, created by Steve Englehart and Steve Gan, first appeared in Marvel Preview #4 (January 1976). The son of human Meredith Quill and Spartoi J'son, Peter Quill assumes the mantle of Star-Lord, an interplanetary policeman.
The character played prominent roles in the comic book storylines "Annihilation" (2006) and "Annihilation: Conquest" (2007), "War of Kings" (2008), and The Thanos Imperative (2009). He became the leader of the space-based superhero team Guardians of the Galaxy in the 2008 relaunch of the comic of the same name. He has been featured in a variety of associated Marvel merchandise, including animated television series, toys and trading cards.
Chris Pratt portrays the character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe films Guardians of the Galaxy (2014), Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 (2017), Avengers: Infinity War (2018), and Avengers: Endgame (2019). Wyatt Oleff portrays a young Peter Quill in the first two Guardians of the Galaxy films. Pratt will return to play the character in Thor: Love and Thunder (2022), The Guardians of the Galaxy Holiday Special (2022), and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3.

Publication history
The character first appeared in the black-and-white magazine publication Marvel Preview #4 (Jan 1976). Creator Steve Englehart had plans for the character that went unrealized. He later reflected on his website:

I conceived something very large. My hero would go from being an unpleasant, introverted jerk to the most cosmic being in the universe, and I would tie it into my then-new interest in astrology. After his earthbound beginning, his mind would be opened step by step, with a fast-action story on Mercury, a love story on Venus, a war story on Mars, and so on out to the edge of the solar system, and then beyond.
But—after his earthbound beginning, where I established him as an unpleasant, introverted jerk, I left Marvel, so no one ever saw what he was to become.
Star-Lord continued to appear in Marvel Preview, with writer Chris Claremont revamping the character and using science fiction adventure stories like the Heinlein juveniles for inspiration. Heinlein's lawyers threatened legal action over the cover to Marvel Preview #11, which featured a blurb that described the content as "a novel-length science fiction spectacular in the tradition of Robert A. Heinlein", leading to the issue being pulled and reprinted. The story in #11 was the first teaming of the celebrated X-Men creative trio of writer Chris Claremont, penciller John Byrne, and inker Terry Austin. Star-Lord made sporadic appearances over the next few years in the titles Marvel Super Special, Marvel Spotlight, and Marvel Premiere. The Marvel Spotlight installments, which were Star-Lord's first appearance in a traditional comic book format, served to consolidate the separate but complementary origin stories from his two appearances in Marvel Preview. In February 1982, a color reprint of the black-and-white Star-Lord story from Marvel Preview #11 was published with a new framing sequence by Claremont and artist Michael Golden.The character returned in Thanos #8–12 (May–Sept. 2004) and Annihilation #1-6 (2006). The following year, he received a four issue eponymous title (Annihilation: Conquest – Star-Lord) leading into the "Annihilation: Conquest" crossover storyline, in which he played a central role. Spinning out of "Annihilation: Conquest", a second volume of Guardians of the Galaxy featured a team of characters from the crossover who were led by Star-Lord for the duration of the title's 25-issue run. Plot lines from that series were concluded in The Thanos Imperative mini-series.
Because of revisions to the character's origin, his early appearances have been officially designated as occurring in an alternate reality.Star-Lord returned, along with other members of the Guardians, in Avengers Assemble #4-8 (June–Oct. 2012). He stars in Guardians of the Galaxy vol. 3, a part of the Marvel NOW! relaunch.In July 2014, Star-Lord received his own ongoing series, Legendary Star-Lord. The character was also given a new costume, matching that seen in the Marvel Studios film Guardians of the Galaxy
His solo series and Guardians of the Galaxy vol. 3 ended as Marvel began its 2015 "Secret Wars" storyline. Star-Lord appeared as a main character in the core Secret Wars miniseries, and in a tie-in miniseries during the event, Star-Lord and Kitty Pryde.During publication of "Secret Wars", Marvel premiered a new ongoing Star-Lord series, written by Sam Humphries, as part of the All-New, All-Different Marvel initiative, which focused on the character's revamped origins. This series also saw him leave the Guardians of the Galaxy, and replaced by his fiancée Kitty Pryde, who took over the identity of Star-Lord on the team's roster. The series lasted for eight issues. A subsequent Star-Lord ongoing series written by Chip Zdarsky began in December 2017 before being canceled after a six issues and one annual.In April 2019 Peter Quill was given a 12 issue miniseries set in the Old Man Logan Universe called Old Man Quill, which was written by Ethan Sacks and drawn by Robert Gill.

Fictional character biography
When J'son's ship crash lands in Colorado, he is taken in by Meredith Quill. The two form a relationship while J'son makes repairs to his ship. Eventually, J'son is forced to leave to return home and fight in a war. He leaves, not knowing Meredith is pregnant with Peter Quill. Ten years later, Meredith is killed when she is attacked by two Badoon soldiers who have come to kill Peter and end J'son's blood line. Peter finds his father's gun by accident, kills them with a shotgun, and escapes his home before it is destroyed by the Badoon ship. The Badoon presume Peter has been killed and leave. Peter is placed in an orphanage and eventually joins NASA. It was eventually explained that he was raised by his mother's best friend Lisa Chang who was a commander at NASA.Later, when his ship malfunctions and he is stranded in space, Peter is found by the Ravagers, a group of space pirates led by Yondu. After the Ravagers save Peter, he tries to steal their ship. He outsmarts the Ravagers and even knocks out Yondu before capturing him. After Yondu awakens, he frees himself and attacks Peter, letting Peter choose to be released to space without more trouble or be killed. Peter instead asks Yondu if he could join Yondu's crew. Yondu eventually learns that the two share something in common: growing up as "kids without homes". Yondu lets Peter stay in the ship with the Ravagers as their cleaning boy. Peter decides to stay and try to learn everything he can while among the Ravagers.Peter encounters  the Fallen One, a former Herald of Galactus, and is almost killed defeating the entity. In addition, his vessel, Ship, is destroyed in the conflict. Peter and the Fallen One are subsequently imprisoned in the intergalactic prison called the Kyln. Peter is freed by the hero Nova during the Annihilation War and aids in the war against villain Annihilus. He later acts as military adviser to the Kree General Ronan the Accuser.
When the Kree homeworld of Hala is conquered by the Phalanx, Star-Lord leads a band of rebels against the invaders until the war is over. In an effort to prevent another interstellar war, Star-Lord forms a new version of the Guardians of the Galaxy. They are "proactive" and try to end emerging galactic threats early, but are unsuccessful at preventing a war between the Kree and Shi'ar. During a war with an invading universe, Star-Lord and Nova are prepared to sacrifice themselves to defeat Thanos but only Nova dies and Thanos escapes.

New Guardians and Kitty Pryde
Peter decides to remain inactive for a time until he discovers his father was planning to pass a law that forbade any interaction of extraterrestrial or space origin with Earth. Knowing this would be an open invitation for invasion, Peter decides to reform the Guardians with six members: Gamora, Rocket Raccoon, Groot, Drax the Destroyer, and Bug, along with himself, and start protecting Earth from any attack. Soon they aid the Avengers against the returned Thanos. After this, Star-Lord and his new team of Guardians engage in conflicts with the Badoon. He is soon captured by the army of Spartax but he escapes imprisonment and broadcasts a video showing the unfairness of his father's reign. During the war of the builders, he infiltrated the S.W.O.R.D. facilities and rescued Abigail Brand along with Rocket and new member Angela. He also declared war against the Shi'ar empire after intervening in one of their trials to rescue the kidnapped young Jean Grey along with the X-Men.
During this mission Peter meets Kitty Pryde, and the two eventually have a romantic relationship. Afterwards, the Guardians are cornered and captured by the Spartax Army. Peter is sent to Spartax where he confronts his father again and escapes after exposing once again his father's tyrannical reign. A riot forms in the Empire and J'son is deposed as a consequence. Peter keeps a low profile and remains dedicated to his long-distance relationship with Kitty. Soon he discovers he is elected by the Spartax people to be their new emperor. Peter ignores the announcement and focuses on Kitty and his search for a gangster named Mr. Knife who had put a bounty on his head. After being captured by Knife, he realizes Knife is J'son, his father. He escapes thanks to Kitty, and they spend some time together. Peter convinces Kitty to stay in space with him. He decides to steal an important artifact from J'son as payback.

The Black Vortex
Peter and Kitty were successful in stealing the artifact called The Black Vortex, but found themselves outnumbered by J'son's killing squad so they decided to call the X-Men and the remaining Guardians for help. Knowing the artifact could give them the needed power to defeat J'son, Peter wanted everyone to submit to the Vortex to gain cosmic powers. Kitty stood against the idea but some of their friends submitted anyway. After failing to stop them, the submitted cosmic warriors attacked Hala and Peter went with a team to help the Kree in the battle. After some failed negotiations for the Vortex his team had to escape, but J'son found them and destroyed Hala in retaliation. Peter escaped on time. After finding Spartax had been completely covered in amber by Thane, including Kitty, Peter lamented not having heard her since the beginning and apologize to her. Kitty escaped thanks to her phasing powers and both had a reunion. Seeing no other way to defeat J'son and his cosmic empowered team, Peter tried to submit to the Vortex but after seeing the power would eventually make him push Kitty away, he refused. Kitty ended up submitting and saving Spartax. After the war ended, Peter had a romantic talk with Kitty where he proposes to Kitty Pryde, a proposal which she accepts.

Secret Wars
When the universe is facing its imminent end, Star-Lord and the rest of the Guardians of the Galaxy come to the world's final battle against the Children of Tomorrow. During the battle, Groot and Rocket Raccoon are killed, and Star-Lord is teleported away by Reed Richards to his ship. In the end, he is one of the few survivors of the apocalypse aboard the Fantastic Four's "life raft". After the end of the universe, Doctor Doom somehow creates a new, patchwork world formed from the remains of dead universes. The life raft that Star-Lord was on remained in cryostasis for the next eight years, until they are awakened by Doctor Strange, a new Thor, and Miles Morales. Doom becomes aware of their location, and ambushes them. Knowing they are the only hope of reviving the old universe, Strange casts a spell to spread the survivors across the world using the wind, with Doom vowing to find them.Star-Lord ends up in the domain of Manhattan, where he gets a job singing in the popular club, "the Quiet Room", singing Disney songs, as Disney films never existed in Battleworld, using the alias of Steve Rogers to hide from Doom. It is here that he runs into an alternate universe version of Kitty Pryde (from the Age of Apocalypse universe), who is hunting down artifacts from before Battleworld's creation. Hoping to talk to who he believes is his fiancée, he accidentally foils a deal between Kitty and Gambit to obtain an ancient artifact. Gambit leaves, but Kitty uses a scanner to discover that Star-Lord is from before Battleworld's creation, and she plans to take him to Doom. However, they are ambushed by a group of robots connected to Gambit. The two decide to steal an artifact that Gambit has, but it is a trap, and the two are captured. Right before Gambit can kill them, a version of Drax appears. Drax originally hired Peter to work in the Quiet Room. Drax knocks out Gambit. The three leave with the artifact secured. When they are safe the next morning, Kitty shows it to the two, only to find out its Rocket Raccoon's tail. Star-Lord laments the death of his friend, and Kitty decides to allow him to keep it, as it is the one thing left of his old universe. Star-Lord thanks Kitty, who kisses him before heading back to her home of Doomguard. Realizing the two are out of a job for abandoning the Quiet Room in the middle of a show, Star-Lord and Drax decide to go back into Star-Lord's old career as a thief. He asks Drax if he knows a good geneticist, as he plans on using Rocket's tail to make a clone of his friend, possibly an army of them.During the final stand against God Doom, Peter not only piloted a ship to take the two Reed Richards' to the heart of Castle Doom, but also managed to keep Black Swan occupied by using the last twig of Groot, kept in his pocket ever since the Incursions to be planted at the crucial moment.

All-New, All-Different Marvel
Following the restoration of reality, Peter ascends to the throne of Spartax, with Rocket taking over leadership of the Guardians while Kitty (under the alias Star-Lady) and the Thing (following the disbanding of the Fantastic Four while the Richards' family worked to restore the multiverse) joins the team. After Kree accuser Hala and the ruthless Yotat the Destroyer cause mass destruction on Spartax while trying to eliminate Quill, he returns to the Guardians due to the accusations of his delegates about his responsibility for the resulting deaths.During the Civil War II storyline, Star-Lord and the Guardians of the Galaxy assist Captain Marvel as her surprise weapon in the fight against Iron Man. During the battle, the Guardians ship is destroyed which leaves them stranded on Earth. After Iron Man's faction leaves, Gamora overhears a conversation between Peter and Kitty in which she learns that Peter knew (without telling the rest of the team) that Thanos was on Earth the entire time they were there. After stopping Gamora from storming into the Triskelion and killing Thanos, Gamora and the other Guardians leave Peter due to the secrecy. Peter and Kitty then break off their engagement.

Grounded
Living alone in an apartment given to him by Abigail Brand, Peter calls Howard the Duck to try and have drinks with him, and Howard furiously hangs up. He then finds Kitty and Old Man Logan in an art gallery, where Kitty shouts at him for carrying his guns into an art gallery with children. Frustrated, Peter leaves. Logan then catches up to him and has drinks with him in a bar, where they fight hitmen, which attracts the attention of the police. Logan flees the scene and Peter is captured.
Peter is prosecuted by Matt Murdock, who argues that unlike other superheroes, Star-Lord was reckless and endangered civilians while causing substantial property damage. The trial is interrupted by Brand, who gets the judge to reduce Peter's sentence to community service, to which Peter agrees. Brand and Alpha Flight then give him a new skin-tight costume, and he is assigned to senior citizen Edmund Allen, a retired super-criminal named Silver Bandit. After a day of bonding, Star-Lord is hired as a bartender at a bar for supervillains owned by Edmund's son.

Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 6
When another threat to the universe arose, Star-Lord joined Rocket, Nova, and other members of the Guardians to fight it. Star-Lord appeared to die in a bomb blast, but was actually transported to another reality where he befriended two people. Star-Lord spent the equivalent of 144 years in that reality before returning to his original universe.

Powers and abilities
Star-Lord is a master strategist and problem solver who is an expert in close-quarter combat, various human and alien firearms, and battle techniques. He has extensive knowledge of various alien customs, societies, and cultures, and considerable knowledge about cosmic abstracts, such as Oblivion.
As Star-Lord, Peter Quill wears a suit that grants augmented strength and durability and the ability to travel through space. He uses an "Element Gun", a special meta-pistol capable of projecting one of the four elements (air, earth, fire and water). Star-Lord shares a psychic link with his sentient space vessel, Ship.
Ship is a sentient energy form. She most often exists in the form of a starship but can alter her structure at will. She can travel through air, space and water. She possesses many of the conventional starship accessories, including shields, energy blasters, advanced sensors, replicators (able to form any kind of food, drink, etc.), and hologram projectors. She has proven capable of creating a human form, which she can then animate and use as a host. Even if completely destroyed, she is capable of restoring herself, since her true form is her consciousness. In addition, she takes on a number of feminine characteristics, such as a mothering instinct for those she is partnered with. She has felt deeper attachments, including love for her partners.
Ship can create Widgets—small, mobile droids able to scout out situations, gather information, and then return to her. The full extent of Ship's abilities are unknown. During Star-Lord's battle with The Fallen One, his element gun, suit and Ship were destroyed. Due to severe injury, he was grafted with cybernetic implants by doctors on the Kyln, where he was sentenced. The eye implant allows him to see all energy spectra and the memory chip in his brain gives him 100% total recall.
On the Kree world of Aladon Prime, Star-Lord's cybernetic implants were removed. Star-Lord was outfitted with a Kree-issued heat-dampening espionage battle-suit, which became the hallmark look for the Guardians of the Galaxy, a battle helmet, and a universal translator, all of which he still uses. His battle helmet can analyze strategy data, improve vision, and regulate oxygen in space.
Star-Lord's chosen weapons are two Kree sub-machine guns with various types of ammunition, including explosives.
After escaping the Cancerverse, Peter acquires a new element gun(s), but he discards his armor.

Other characters named Star-Lord
A three-issue limited series, Starlord, features a man Sinjin Quarrel who adopts the identity 12 years after the disappearance of the original Star-Lord (Peter Jason Quill). The series was published from December 1996 to February 1997. It was written by Timothy Zahn, with art by Dan Lawlis.

Other versions
Classic
Star-Lord's adventures in Marvel Preview #4 and #11 have been officially designated as occurring in an alternate past. In these issues, Peter Quill is born during an unusual astronomical phenomenon when many of the planets align. Seeing no resemblance, the man who believed he was Quill's father accuses his wife Meredith of infidelity and attempts to kill the infant, but dies of a sudden heart attack. Peter is raised by his single mother until she is killed by Ariguans when he is eleven. Quill is placed in an orphanage but escapes and eventually becomes a trainee NASA astronaut.
An alien entity called the Master of the Sun later visits the space station that Quill and other astronauts are inhabiting and offers the mantle of Star-Lord (an interplanetary policeman) to a worthy candidate. Quill volunteers, but he is rejected in favor of a colleague he once treated badly. Quill is outraged, and NASA orders his return to Earth and discharge for his conduct. Instead, he steals a scout ship, returns to the space station, and takes his colleague's place. Quill becomes Star-Lord, with the Master of the Sun first creating an illusion in which the character is able to find and kill the aliens that murdered his mother to free him of his past. Equipped with a sentient vessel called "Ship", Quill commences his role as Star-Lord.Years later, Star-Lord becomes involved in stopping a group of slavers who are destroying worlds. His efforts led him to discover a conspiracy to replace the emperor of the Spartoi Empire. In order to thwart the takeover, Star-Lord travels to the imperial throneworld Sparta where he encounters and kills the alien who killed his mother. Star-Lord then meets Emperor Jason who reveals that he is Peter's father. Jason explains that he had crashed on Earth decades earlier and been rescued by Meredith Quill. During the year that he had spent repairing his ship, Jason and Meredith fell in love. When it came time to leave, Jason, for Meredith's safety, had placed a mindlock on her memories of him, causing her to remember their year together as only a dream.

Age of Ultron
During the 2013 "Age of Ultron" storyline, Wolverine and Susan Storm accidentally create an alternate timeline after traveling back in time and assassinating Hank Pym before he can create Ultron. In the new reality, Star-Lord is seen as a member of the Defenders, who have replaced the defunct Avengers as the world's premier superhero team.

Starkill
Lord Starkill debuted in Captain Marvel #126 in 2018. He is an evil version of Star-Lord from an alternate universe. He possesses the Reality Stone and is allied with Thanos.

Old Man Quill
Based in the Old Man Logan universe, Peter Quill eventually becomes the emperor of Spartax. He leaves the Guardians of the Galaxy and Gamora to marry L'ssa and fathers two kids, however, the Universal Church of Truth draw him out in a firefight, which leaves his homeworld vulnerable to attack the Church destroys everything and everyone he loves.
A devastated Quill is found by an aged version of the Guardians recruiting him for one more adventure back on Earth that will give him revenge on the Church.

In other media
Television
Star-Lord appears in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes episode "Michael Korvac", voiced by Steve Downes.
Star-Lord appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man, voiced by Chris Cox. In "Guardians of the Galaxy", he is seen as a member of the Guardians of the Galaxy. He and the Guardians of the Galaxy fight Korvac and the Chitauri with the help of Spider-Man and Nova. In "The Return of the Guardians of the Galaxy", Star-Lord is with the Guardians of the Galaxy when they land on Earth to rebuild their ship at the same time when Titus was leading the Chitauri into targeting Nova's helmet.
Star-Lord appears in Avengers Assemble, voiced by Chris Cox (in "Guardians and Spaceknights") and later by Will Friedle (in "Widow's Run"). In "Guardians and Spaceknights", he was seen with the Guardians of the Galaxy when they are in the middle of evacuating the D'Bari from their homeworld before it can be consumed by Galactus. In "Widow's Run", Star-Lord tries to get Tony Stark to have the Infinity Gems in the custody of the Guardians of the Galaxy only to be turned down. This causes Star-Lord to lead the Guardians of the Galaxy into taking the Infinity Gems from the Black Widow leading the group's fight with the Avengers. Using special teleportation disks, the Falcon was able to send the Guardians of the Galaxy back to their ship. Star-Lord's design initially resembles his original comic book appearance, however it changed and now resembles Chris Pratt's character from the Guardians of the Galaxy film.
Star-Lord appeared in Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H., voiced by Chris Cox (in "It's a Wonderful Smash" and "Guardians of the Galaxy"), and by Will Friedle (in "Planet Monster" Pt. 2).
Star-Lord appears in Marvel Disk Wars: The Avengers episode "Guardians of the Galaxy".
Star-Lord appears in the Guardians of the Galaxy animated series, voiced again by Will Friedle.
Star-Lord appears in Lego Marvel Super Heroes - Guardians of the Galaxy: The Thanos Threat, voiced again by Will Friedle.
Star-Lord appears in the Spider-Man episode "Amazing Friends," voiced again by Will Friedle. He sends Groot to Earth to carry a message to Spider-Man to warn him that the Symbiotes are heading to Earth. He is eventually cured by Anti-Venom off-screen after "Vengeance of Venom" Pt. 2.
Star-Lord will appear in the Marvel Cinematic Universe animated series What If...?. This version will be in an episode that asks what if T'Challa was Star-Lord instead of Black Panther.

Film
Star-Lord makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in the animated direct-to-video film Planet Hulk. He is seen as an audience member in the Sakaar arena.

Chris Pratt portrays Peter Quill / Star-Lord in the films set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
In Guardians of the Galaxy, Peter Quill is introduced as a young boy in 1988, who is unable to accept his mother's death due to cancer and leaves the hospital in tears, but is abducted by an extraterrestrial spaceship and taken off of Earth. 26 years later, an adult Peter is a member of the Ravagers, the mercenary gang who abducted him as a child led by Yondu Udonta, and has had many adventures around the galaxy. While on a scavenging job, Peter finds himself embroiled in a significant power struggle and revenge war between two advanced galactic powers, the Kree warlord Ronan the Accuser and Xandar's Nova Corps, while also being hunted by Yondu after failing to bring him a stolen relic he found on Morag, that is later revealed to be an Infinity Stone which Ronan seeks. After he successfully retrieves the Power Stone, he returns to Xandar, where he is confronted by Gamora, who attempts to steal the Stone for herself, and Rocket Raccoon and Groot, who attempts to steal Peter in an attempt to collect a bounty on him. After a fight breaks out, the three are sent to the Nova Corps prison. They break out with another cellmate named Drax the Destroyer and escape on a spaceship, where they become the Guardians of the Galaxy and Gamora takes them to Knowhere, where The Collector teaches them the significance of the Infinity Stones. However, they are attacked by Ronan's forces and forced to flee, losing the Power Stone in the process. Learning that Ronan plans to use the Power Stone to completely destroy Xandar, they travel to Xandar to stop him, with the help of Yondu. After a battle between Ronan's army and the Nova Corps, the Guardians manage to destroy the Kree warship, and Peter uses the Power Stone to disintegrate Ronan. Unfortunately, Groot dies after sacrificing his life to save the Guardians. In the end, Peter and the Guardians are hailed as heroes as Peter vows to keep an eye on the team in case they break any laws again. Throughout, Peter is shown listening to a mixtape of various hit songs from 1962 – 1986 in a Walkman that was given to him by his mother, which serves as his only connection with Earth.
In Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2, Peter and the Guardians, except Baby Groot, fight off an alien, before meeting with the Sovereign, who give them Nebula. After learning Rocket stole the Sovereign’s batteries, they crash land on a planet, where Peter meets his father revealed to be Ego the Living Planet, a primordial Celestial who manifests a human avatar that allows him to interact with other races. Peter, Gamora, and Drax go with Ego to his planet where they meet Ego’s ward Mantis. Ego informs Peter that he too possesses his Celestial abilities. Peter is initially happy to have found his father and to have family again, however, it is eventually revealed that Ego intends to terraform all other planets into extensions of himself, killing all other life, and had conceived Peter with the intention that his son would provide the extra power necessary to do so. After Ego tells him he killed his mother, Peter turns against him. Peter keeps Ego occupied in combat with his newfound Celestial powers until Baby Groot places a bomb on Ego's brain. After Ego dies and Peter loses his Celestial powers, he is rescued from the planet's destruction by Yondu, who reveals himself as an adopted father to Peter. In space, Yondu gives Peter the last space suit sacrificing his life to save him. The Guardians hold a memorial to give Yondu an honorable funeral, and the Ravagers arrive to pay homage. Peter also replaces his Walkman, which Ego had destroyed, with a Zune.
In Avengers: Infinity War, Peter and the Guardians rescue Thor from the wreckage of the Statesman. He takes Gamora, Drax, and Mantis to Knowhere, where on the way, Gamora asks him to kill her if Thanos captures her to prevent him from learning the Soul Stone’s location. On Knowhere, Peter gives Gamora instructions when the group confronts Thanos, which she ignores and is captured by Thanos. After Thanos leaves with Gamora, Peter, Drax, and Mantis travel to Titan and meet Tony Stark, Stephen Strange, and Peter Parker, after a brief confrontation in which they realize they are on the same side. They fight Thanos when he arrives and gain the upper hand, with Mantis subduing him with her powers, until Peter learns of Gamora's death from Nebula and attacks Thanos, breaking Mantis' hold. In the end, Peter disintegrates.
In Avengers: Endgame, Peter is restored to life and is brought to Earth after 30 years to the final battle against an alternate Thanos. Peter also meets an alternate Gamora. Later, he attends Stark's funeral and leaves with Thor and the Guardians.
Peter will return in Thor: Love and Thunder and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3.

Video games
Star-Lord is available as downloadable content for LittleBigPlanet, as part of "Marvel Costume Kit 5".
Star-Lord appeared in Marvel Heroes.
Star-Lord appears in Lego Marvel Super Heroes.
Star-Lord appears as a playable character in Disney Infinity: Marvel Super Heroes.
Star-Lord is available in the "Guardians of the Galaxy" skin pack for Minecraft on Xbox and PlayStation platforms. This skin pack became unavailable in December 2015 along with the other 2 Marvel skin packs: "The Avengers" and "Spider-Man".
Star-Lord is available in the Facebook game Marvel: Avengers Alliance as the Special Operations 20 unlockable.
Star-Lord is an unlockable and playable character in Marvel Contest of Champions.
Star-Lord is an unlockable and playable character in Marvel: Future Fight.
Star-Lord is a playable character in Disney Infinity 3.0.
Star-Lord is the primary protagonist of the video game Guardians of the Galaxy: The Telltale Series, voiced by Scott Porter as an adult and by Jeremy Shada as a kid. As seen in a flashback, Peter Quill had to promise his mother not to get into fights with a bully. After Meredith Quill died, Peter Quill is taken in by Yondu where Meredith entrusted him to watch over Peter.
There are three playable versions of Star-Lord in the match-three mobile game Marvel Puzzle Quest, the two newest versions of which were added to the game in April 2017.
Star-Lord also appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2.
Star-Lord is a playable character in Marvel Strike Force.
Star-Lord appears as a playable character in Marvel Powers United VR, voiced again by Chris Cox.
Star-Lord will be playable in Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order, voiced again by Scott Porter.
Star-Lord is a purchasable and playable character in Fortnite Battle Royale.

Theme Parks
Star-Lord appears in the Guardians of the Galaxy – Mission: Breakout! attraction at Disney California Adventure with Chris Pratt reprising his role from the films.

Toys
Star-Lord was featured in the Marvel Universe toy line as a 3 3/4" figure in his Guardian uniform. He was sold in a three pack with Drax the Destroyer, Rocket Raccoon, and a mini Groot accessory.
Star-Lord appears as a figure in the Groot Build-A-Figure line.
Star-Lord is featured in the Hot Toys 1:6 scale line for Marvel Studios film Guardians of the Galaxy. The head sculpt features an authentic and detailed likeness of Chris Pratt as Star-Lord.
Nerf has released toys of Star-Lord's mask and weapons as they appear in the film.

Collected editions
Star-Lord: Guardian of the Galaxy (collects Marvel Preview #4, 11, 14-15, 18; Marvel Super Special #10; Marvel Spotlight vol. 2 #6-7; Marvel Premiere #61; and Star-Lord Vol. 1 #1-3), 424 pages, July 2014, ISBN 978-0785154495
Legendary Star-Lord Vol. 1: Face It, I Rule (collects Legendary Star-Lord #1-5), 112 pages, February 2015, ISBN 978-0785191599
Legendary Star-Lord Vol. 2: Rise of the Black Vortex (collects Legendary Star-Lord #6-12), 160 pages, August 2015, ISBN 978-0785191605
Legendary Star-Lord Vol. 3: First Flight (collects Star-Lord Vol. 2 #1-5), 112 pages, July 2016, ISBN 978-0785196242
Legendary Star-Lord Vol. 4: Out of Orbit (collects Star-Lord Vol. 2 #6-8, Avengers #28, 51, 174), 128 pages, November 2016, ISBN 978-0785196259
Star-Lord and Kitty Pryde (collects Star-Lord and Kitty Pryde #1-3, Generation Next #1, and Guardians of the Galaxy and X-Men: The Black Vortex Omega), 128 pages, December 2015, ISBN 978-0785198437
Star-Lord: Grounded (collects STAR-LORD Vol. 3 #1-6), 168 pages, July 3, 2017, ISBN 978-1302905545
Old Man Quill Vol. 1: Nobody's Fault but My Own (collects OLD MAN QUILL 1-6), 136 pages, August 20, 2019, ISBN 978-1302916695
Old Man Quill Vol. 2 (collects OLD MAN QUILL 7-12), 136 pages, February 18, 2020, ISBN 978-1302916701

References
External links
Star-Lord at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)