Stephen Strange, often referred to as Doctor Strange, is a fictional character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film franchise, based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name. He first appeared as the main character in the eponymous film released in 2016, as a brilliant but arrogant surgeon, who, after a career-ending car crash, discovers magic and becomes a Master of the Mystic Arts, using his newfound powers to protect the Earth from magical and extraterrestrial threats. The character also plays a main role in Avengers: Infinity War (2018), and appears with a lesser role in Thor: Ragnarok (2017) and Avengers: Endgame (2019). Strange is expected to return in a supporting role in Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021), and the main role in Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness (2022).
In all of his appearances, he is played by Benedict Cumberbatch, who received critical acclaim for his performance and was nominated for several awards. Doctor Strange's character, while well-received, was more praised for his later appearances, as many felt he works better in a supporting capacity rather than the lead.

History
The character of Doctor Strange was originally created in the 1960s. Artist Steve Ditko and writer Stan Lee have described the character as having been originally the idea of Ditko, who wrote in 2008, "On my own, I brought in to Lee a five-page, penciled story with a page/panel script of my idea of a new, different kind of character for variety in Marvel Comics. My character wound up being named Dr. Strange because he would appear in Strange Tales." In a 1963 letter to Jerry Bails, Lee wrote:

Well, we have a new character in the works for Strange Tales (just a 5-page filler named Dr. Strange) Steve Ditko is gonna draw him. It has sort of a black magic theme. The first story is nothing great, but perhaps we can make something of him-- 'twas Steve's idea and I figured we'd give it a chance, although again, we had to rush the first one too much. Little sidelight: Originally decided to call him Mr. Strange, but thought the "Mr." bit too similar to Mr. Fantastic – now, however, I remember we had a villain called Dr. Strange just recently in one of our mags, hope it won't be too confusing!
Following a 1978 film adaptation also titled Dr. Strange, various incarnations of a Doctor Strange film adaptation had been in development since the mid-1980s, until Paramount Pictures acquired the film rights in April 2005 on behalf of Marvel Studios. In the mid-2000s, Kevin Feige had realized that Marvel still owned the rights to the core characters of the Avengers, which included Strange. Feige, a self-professed "fanboy", envisioned creating a shared universe just as creators Stan Lee and Jack Kirby had done with their comic books in the early 1960s. In 2004, David Maisel was hired as chief operating officer of Marvel Studios as he had a plan for the studio to self-finance movies. Marvel entered into a non-recourse debt structure with Merrill Lynch, under which Marvel got $525 million to make a maximum of 10 movies based on the company's properties over eight years, collateralized by certain movie rights to a total of 10 characters, including Doctor Strange. Thomas Dean Donnelly and Joshua Oppenheimer were brought on board in June 2010 to write a screenplay. In June 2014, Derrickson was hired to direct and re-write the film with Spaihts. Cumberbatch was chosen for the eponymous role in December 2014, necessitating a schedule change to work around his other commitments. This gave Derrickson time to work on the script himself, for which he brought Cargill on to help. The film began principal photography in November 2015 in Nepal, before moving to the United Kingdom and Hong Kong, and concluding in New York City in April 2016.

Characterization
He is first referenced as merely "Stephen Strange" in dialogue by Agent Sitwell in the 2014 film Captain America: The Winter Soldier, and first appears in the 2016 film Doctor Strange, in which he is portrayed by Benedict Cumberbatch. Cumberbatch reprises the role in the films Thor: Ragnarok, Avengers: Infinity War, and Avengers: Endgame. He will reprise the role in Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness, which was originally set to release on May 7, 2021, but due to the COVID-19 epidemic the release date was delayed to March 25, 2022.In his first feature-length appearance in the MCU, Dr. Strange is a neurosurgeon who, after a car crash that led to a journey of healing, discovers the hidden world of magic and alternate dimensions. Cumberbatch described Strange as arrogant, with the film "about him going from a place where he thinks he knows it all to realizing he knows nothing." He compared the character to the version of Sherlock Holmes that he portrays in Sherlock, calling both characters "intelligent" and having "smatterings of the same colors". The film's mysticism resonated with Cumberbatch, for whom spirituality has been important since he spent his gap year teaching English at a Tibetan Buddhist monastery in Darjeeling, India. Strange's abilities in the film include casting spells with "tongue-twisty fun names", creating mandalas of light for shields and weapons, and creating portals for quick travel around the world. Strange is also aided by a Cloak of Levitation for flight, and the Eye of Agamotto, a relic containing an Infinity Stone that can manipulate time. Cumberbatch took great care in defining the physical movements and gestures for the spells, knowing that they would be noted and studied by fans. He described these gestures as "balletic" and "very dynamic", and received help with finger-tutting movements from dancer JayFunk.Later, Strange has become a Master of the Mystic Arts. Markus and McFeely described Strange in Infinity War as "[ending] up being the reasonable adult in the room" with the "widest perspective available". Aaron Lazar served as Cumberbatch's stand-in until the latter completed filming on The Current War (2017). At that point, Cumberbatch re-shot scenes where his face needed to be seen. Julian "JayFunk" Daniels once again assisted Cumberbatch with his finger-tutting movements.

Appearances
Strange is first mentioned in Captain America: The Winter Soldier as a possible threat to Hydra.
In Doctor Strange, Strange is introduced as a surgeon at Metro General Hospital in New York City. One night, he gets in a car accident and damages his hands, leaving him unable to perform his doctor duties. He gets help from his colleague and ex Christine Palmer. He learns about a man named Jonathan Pangborn who mysteriously regained his use of legs and travels to Kamar-Taj in Nepal where he meets the Ancient One and is shown the Multiverse. He is then trained by Mordo. Strange learns from Mordo and Wong about the Sanctums and the Time Stone. Kaecilius kills the Ancient One and damages the London and Hong Kong Sanctums, but Strange uses the Time Stone to reverse the damage, restoring Wong and the Hong Kong Sanctum. He enters the portal to the Dark Dimension and makes a bargain with Dormammu to leave Earth after putting him through a time loop and to take Kaecilius in return for Strange breaking the loop. After Mordo cuts ties with Strange, Strange takes up residence at the New York Sanctum and continues to be taught by Wong.
In Thor: Ragnarok, Strange helps Thor and Loki at the New York Sanctum get to their father in Norway.
In Avengers: Infinity War, Strange and Wong are warned by Bruce Banner at the New York Sanctum of Thanos' plan. He recruits Tony Stark, and fights Ebony Maw and Cull Obsidian alongside him, but is captured by Maw and taken into space. Strange is rescued by Stark and Peter Parker, and later meets Peter Quill, Drax and Mantis on the planet Titan where they fight Thanos. After losing a duel with Thanos, he gives him the Time Stone in order to save Stark's life. Later, he is one of the victims of the Snap.
In Avengers: Endgame, Strange is restored to life and joins the final battle against an alternate Thanos. He later attends Tony Stark's funeral.
Strange is mentioned in Spider-Man: Far From Home as being unavailable when Peter Parker suggests to "Nick Fury" Talos that he be called to help with the Elementals.
Strange is indirectly mentioned in WandaVision by Agatha Harkness when she says Wanda Maximoff's powers exceed those of the Sorcerer Supreme.
Strange is mentioned in The Falcon and the Winter Soldier by Sam Wilson who describes him as a "wizard without a hat".
Strange will return in Spider-Man: No Way Home and Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness, and the animated series What If...?.

Fictional character biography
Becoming a Master of the Mystic Arts
In 2016, Stephen Strange is a wealthy and acclaimed, but arrogant neurosurgeon, who severely injures his hands in a car crash while en route to a dinner, leaving him unable to operate. Fellow surgeon and former lover Christine Palmer tries to help him move on, but Strange ignores her attempts and vainly pursues experimental surgeries to heal his hands, at the cost of his wealth.
Strange learns about Jonathan Pangborn, a paraplegic, who he had refused to treat earlier due to perceiving him having little chance of recovery but had mysteriously regained use of his legs. Pangborn directs Strange to Kamar-Taj, where he is rescued from a band of thieves attempting to steal an expensive watch of his and taken in by Mordo, a sorcerer under the Ancient One. The Ancient One demonstrates her power to Strange, revealing the astral plane and other dimensions such as the Mirror Dimension. She reluctantly agrees to train Strange, whose arrogance and ambition remind her of renegade sorcerer Kaecilius, who had recently stolen pages out of a vital book from the Kamar-Taj library.
Strange studies under the Ancient One and Mordo, and from ancient books in the library that is now guarded by Master Wong. Strange learns that Earth is protected from threats from other dimensions by a shield generated from three buildings called Sanctums, in New York City, London, and Hong Kong, which are all connected and accessible from Kamar-Taj. Strange uses his impressive memory and progresses quickly, secretly reading the text from which Kaecilius stole pages, learning to bend time with the mystical Eye of Agamotto. Mordo and Wong catch Strange in the act and warn him against breaking the laws of nature, drawing a comparison to Kaecilius' desire for eternal life. After Kaecilius uses the stolen pages to contact Dormammu of the Dark Dimension and leads an attack on the New York Sanctum, killing its guardian, Strange holds off the attackers with the help of the Cloak of Levitation until Mordo and the Ancient One arrive. Mordo becomes disillusioned with the Ancient One after Strange reveals that the Ancient One has been drawing power from the Dark Dimension to sustain her long life. Kaecilius later mortally wounds the Ancient One and escapes to Hong Kong. Before dying, she tells Strange that he too will have to bend the rules to complement Mordo's steadfast nature to defeat Kaecilius.
Strange and Mordo arrive in Hong Kong to find Wong dead, the Sanctum destroyed, and the Dark Dimension engulfing Earth. Strange uses the Eye to reverse time and save Wong, then enters the Dark Dimension and creates a time loop around himself and Dormammu. After repeatedly killing Strange to no avail, Dormammu finally gives in to Strange's demand that he leave Earth and take Kaecilius and his zealots with him in return for Strange breaking the loop. Strange returns the Eye to Kamar-Taj, and takes up residence in the New York Sanctum to continue his studies.

Sorcerer Supreme
By 2017, Strange has become the new Sorcerer Supreme, and is keeping a watchlist of various threats for Earth. When Thor and Loki arrive in New York, Strange traps Loki in a portal and invites Thor to the New York Sanctum, where he questions his motives for returning to Earth. Thor explains they are searching for their father, so Strange locates him, releases Loki, and sends the two into a portal to Norway.

Infinity War
In 2018, Strange and Wong are talking in the New York Sanctum when Bruce Banner crash-lands through the roof. He informs Strange and Wong of the imminent threat of Thanos. In response, Strange recruits Tony Stark to help.  Ebony Maw and Cull Obsidian, members of Thanos' Black Order, arrive to retrieve the Time Stone kept by Strange in the Eye of Agamotto, and end up drawing the attention of Peter Parker, who arrives to help. Maw captures Strange, but fails to take the Time Stone due to an enchantment, so he takes him to his spaceship to be tortured until he breaks the spell. However, Stark and Parker infiltrate the ship, kill Maw, and rescue Strange. Landing on the planet Titan, where Maw is supposed to meet with Thanos, the trio meet Peter Quill, Drax the Destroyer, and Mantis and together form a plan to combat Thanos once he arrives. While waiting for him, Strange uses the Time Stone to view millions of possible futures, seeing only one in which Thanos loses. The heroes along with Nebula fight Thanos, and are nearly successful in removing his Infinity Gauntlet with the Infinity Stones, until an enraged Quill unintentionally breaks their hold on him. After a brief duel with Thanos, Strange is defeated while Stark is mortally wounded, but is spared when Strange surrenders the Time Stone. Once the Blip happens, Strange tells Stark there was no other way and disintegrates.
In 2023, Strange is restored to life and transports Parker and the Guardians via a portal to the destroyed Avengers Headquarters on Earth to join the final battle against an alternate Thanos and his army. During the fight, he hints at Stark that this is the one future in which they win. After Stark sacrifices himself to decimate Thanos and his army, Strange attends his funeral.

Reception
The Hollywood Reporter's Todd McCarthy called Doctor Strange "smartly cast, while Alonso Duralde, reviewing for TheWrap said that the film was "smart enough to bring in great British actors to make the predictable paces and life lessons feel fresh and fascinating". Mara Reinstein of US Weekly criticized the film but praised Cumberbatch's "alluring powers" in the role, while Adam Graham of The Detroit News said, "Cumberbatch is wildly charismatic in the lead role... But that's the thing: He's a better party guest than he is a host. Doctor Strange is a fine introduction, but by the end, you're not sad to be headed for the door".For his performance, Cumberbatch was nominated in 2016 for a Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Actor in an Action Movie, and in 2017 for a Saturn Award for Best Actor in a Film, and a Teen Choice Award for Choice Movie Actor in a Fantasy Film.

References
External links
Doctor Strange at Marvel Cinematic Universe Wiki
Marvel Cinematic Universe Doctor Strange on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki
Stephen Strange (Doctor Strange) Biography – Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) – Marvel Studios Official Web Site