Thanos is a fictional character from the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film franchise, based on the Marvel Comics supervillain of the same name. Portrayed primarily by Josh Brolin, the character is a central figure in the "Infinity Saga", appearing in five films including Avengers: Infinity War (2018) and Avengers: Endgame (2019). The films depict Thanos as an alien warlord from the planet Titan who seeks to bring "balance" to the universe by eliminating half of all living beings in order to stabilize its overpopulation. To achieve this, he aims to collect the six Infinity Stones and gain god-like powers, which brings him into conflict with both the Avengers and the Guardians of the Galaxy, who ultimately join forces to defeat Thanos.
The character received universal praise from both critics and fans alike, up to the point where Thanos has been described as the best MCU villain to date, and one of the greatest movie villains of the 21st century.

Creation and development
Jim Starlin conceived Thanos during a college psychology course. Thanos was first introduced as a villain in a 1973 edition of The Invincible Iron Man. Starlin originally designed the character as skinny and lanky, but editor Roy Thomas suggested he "beef him up." Thanos is a mutant member of the race of superhumans known as the Titanian Eternals. The character possesses abilities common to the Eternals, and is able to demonstrate enormous superhuman strength, speed, stamina, and invulnerability among other qualities.
The MCU began building towards Thanos in the first Avengers film, in which Damion Poitier portrayed the character in an uncredited cameo appearance. In May 2014, Josh Brolin signed a multi-film contract to portray the antagonist, debuting in Guardians of the Galaxy (2014). Thanos was originally going to have a larger role in Guardians, but Joss Whedon felt that the character needed to be threaded more gently. Screenwriters Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely noted that Thanos' lingering presence in the franchise helped legitimize him as a threat prior to Infinity War. Despite this, little screen time had been devoted to Thanos' history and motivations. Markus stated, "We don't get an element of surprise [with his introduction in Infinity War]... You can count on a lot of scenes where we illuminate a lot about him very early", with McFeely adding, "It is incumbent upon us to give him a real story, real stakes, real personality, and a real point of view."Avengers: Infinity War (2018) went through numerous story iterations, and over the course of development Thanos' presence in the film grew. VFX Supervisor Dan Deleeuw noted "Thanos went from supporting villain to one of the main characters driving the plot." In one draft, the film was told directly from Thanos' perspective with him serving as narrator. Despite leading the cast in screen time in Infinity War and being considered the main character of the film by many, Thanos had a secondary role in Avengers: Endgame (2019). McFeely explained "we had to give ourselves permission to backseat the villain [...] You're rolling around in the loss and the time heist, and you think it's sort of Avengers against nature." Joe Russo stated that after Thanos was successful in Avengers: Infinity War, he is now "done. He did it. He's retired." Markus and McFeely had difficulty in factoring the older, post-Infinity War, Thanos into the film due to the character already possessing the Infinity Stones, until executive producer Trinh Tran suggested that they kill Thanos in the film's first act. Markus explained that the character's early death "reinforced Thanos' agenda. He was done . . . it was like, 'If I've got to die, I can die now.'"A major aspect of Thanos' comic book storyline is his attempts to woo the female manifestation of Death. This plot was omitted from the films, as the filmmakers instead chose to pair the character with Gamora and focus on their father-daughter relationship. McFeely explained this choice by noting "[Thanos and Gamora] had a lot of history we wanted to explore" that would add layers to Thanos and would avoid him becoming "the big mustache-twisting bad guy who wants ultimate power just to take over the world and sit on a throne". Avoiding the Death storyline moved away from the tease Whedon used in The Avengers with the character, where Thanos felt that by challenging the Avengers, he was courting death. Though the tease was purposely ambiguous, Whedon felt when he featured Thanos he did not know what to do with him and "kind of hung [Thanos] out to dry". Whedon added that "I love Thanos. I love his apocalyptic vision, his love affair with death. I love his power. But, I don't really understand it." Whedon enjoyed the approach the writers and Russos took in Infinity War, giving Thanos "an actual perspective and [making] him feel righteous to himself", since the Death storyline was "not a concept that will necessarily translate".In Avengers: Endgame, Thanos is shown to be a skilled physical fighter, and wields a Double-Edged Sword in combat.

Design and special effects
Digital Domain worked on creating Thanos for Infinity War and Endgame, producing over 400 visual effects shots. The company created a new facial capture application called Masquerade, based on the concept of machine learning through computer algorithms, specifically for the film, beginning work on the system 3–4 months before filming began to develop and test it. They presented their results to Brolin, the Russos, and executives from Marvel ahead of filming to demonstrate the subtleties Brolin would be able to bring to the character, which helped inform Brolin how to portray the character. Before the start of filming, Brolin's facial expressions were captured with ILM's Medusa system, which along with his motion capture data from set, were fed to Masquerade to "create a higher-resolution version of what Brolin did on set" so animators could apply that to the CGI character. Kelly Port, Digital Domain's VFX Supervisor, noted the design of Thanos took into account the versions that appeared in previous films, but were adjusted more toward's Brolin's features, which also helped with matching his performance to the digital character.

Fictional character biography
Early life
Thanos was born around 1,000 years ago on the planet moon Titan to A'Lars, a powerful member of the Titans. At some point during his adulthood, Thanos came to realize that the growth of Titan's population would inevitably result in its downfall, proposing to kill half of the planet's population to save Titan. However, his people rejected his solution as pure madness and cast him out. Over time, Thanos witnessed the death of his people until he was the only surviving member of the Titan race.

Conquest of the Universe
After seeing what happened to Titan, Thanos concluded that other planets would eventually suffer the same fate, and believed that it was his destiny to eliminate half of the universe's population so that the survivors may thrive. He then embarked on a campaign of conquest, which led him to taking control of various alien armies, including the Chitauri, the Sakaaran, and the Outriders, and forging alliances with the Other and Ronan the Accuser. Thanos would also rarely take in orphan children from planets he invaded, including Ebony Maw, Corvus Glaive, Cull Obsidian, Proxima Midnight, Gamora and Nebula, who all went under extensive training under Thanos. Eventually, after venturing across the universe and decimating many planets by killing half of the inhabitants, which he believed would "save" them, Thanos learned about the six Infinity Stones and the powers they could grant. At some point before 2012, he found the first of these stones, the Mind Stone, and placed it within a scepter.
In 2012, the Other meets Loki and sends him to Earth to retrieve the Space Stone kept within the Tesseract in exchange for a Chitauri army to subjugate the planet. Following Loki's defeat by the Avengers and the loss of the Mind Stone, which was given to Loki to aid his mission, the Other reports about the failed attack on Earth to his master. In 2014, Thanos locates the Power Stone and sends Ronan, Gamora, and Nebula to retrieve it. However, all three eventually turn on him: Gamora joins the Guardians of the Galaxy, Ronan decides to keep the stones for himself and renounces his alliance with Thanos, and Nebula sides with Ronan when he vows to kill Thanos after destroying Xandar. In the end, the Guardians are able to prevent Xandar's destruction and defeat Ronan, leaving the Power Stone to be safeguarded by the Nova Corps. Shortly after, Thanos, angered at his recruits' failures, decides to search for the stones himself. In 2015, he goes to Nidavelir and forces the native Dwarves to forge the Infinity Gauntlet to hold all six stones, before killing all of them, except for Etiri.

Search for the Infinity Stones
In 2018, Thanos, accompanied by the Black Order, decimates Xandar and takes the Power Stone. Shortly after, he intercepts the Statesman, carrying Asgardian refugees following their world's destruction, and kills half of them, while also incapacitating Thor and Heimdall. Thanos then attempts to barter the Tesseract from Loki in exchange for Thor’s life, but he unleashes the Hulk, whom Thanos quickly defeats. Before Hulk could be killed, Heimdall sends him away, causing Thanos to murder him instead. He then smashes the Tesseract, obtaining the Space Stone, and orders the Black Order to retrieve the Time and Mind Stones on Earth. After killing Loki, who made a failed attempt on his life, Thanos destroys the Statesman, leaving a barely-living Thor to float in space, and teleports himself and the Black Order back to their ship.
While the Black Order travels to Earth as they were ordered, Thanos goes to Knowhere and obtains the Reality Stone from the Collector. Peter Quill, Drax the Destroyer, Mantis, and Gamora, after learning about his plan from Thor, whom they rescued, arrive to try and stop him, but Thanos captures Gamora and escapes with her. Knowing she had learned the location of the Soul Stone, he coerces into revealing it to him in exchange for sparing a captured Nebula. Thanos and Gamora then go to Vormir, where the stone's guardian, the Red Skull, informs them that it requires the sacrifice of a loved one, causing Thanos to tearfully throw Gamora off a cliff to her death.
Thanos next goes to Titan expecting to meet the Black Order, and is ambushed by Stephen Strange, Tony Stark, Peter Parker, Quill, Drax, and Mantis. Nebula soon arrives and helps the heroes pin down Thanos, but just before Stark and Parker can remove the Infinity Gauntlet, Nebula realises that he murdered Gamora, leading Quill to attack him in a fit of rage. This inadvertently ruins their plan, as Thanos breaks free of their hold and soon overpowers them. After mortally stabbing Stark, he prepares to finish him off, but is stopped by Strange, who barters the Time Stone in exchange for sparing Stark's life.
Teleporting to Earth in Wakanda to retrieve the last stone, the Mind Stone, Thanos encounters resistance from Banner, Bucky Barnes, Sam Wilson, James Rhodes, T'Challa, Natasha Romanoff, Groot, and Steve Rogers, but quickly overpowers them. try to stop him, but he overpowers them quickly. Wanda Maximoff is able to hold off Thanos for a few moments as she tearfully kills Vision to destroy the Mind Stone. However, Thanos uses the Time Stone to bring Vision back, only to tear out the Mind Stone from his head, killing him a second time. With all Infinity Stones collected, Thanos survives a desperate attempt by Thor to stop him, and snaps his fingers in order to decimate half of all life in the universe. Leaving the heroes shocked at their failure to defeat him, Thanos teleports away to Planet 0259-S, known as the Garden, where he smiles at his victory and at finally being able to rest.

Endgame
Twenty-three days after the Blip, Thanos, now retired and living on his Garden planet, is ambushed by Nebula, Rogers, Romanoff, Thor, Rhodes, Banner, Carol Danvers, and Rocket Raccoon, who seek to bring back his victims. They manage to subdue him and Thor cuts off his left arm, only to find the Infinity Gauntlet empty. Thanos reveals he had destroyed the Infinity Stones to avoid temptation and make sure his work would never be undone, prompting Thor to decapitate him.
In an alternate 2014, a past version of Thanos captures Nebula after she unknowingly connects with her past self, and learns from her about the Avengers’ plan to undo his future success by using time travel to retrieve past version of the Infinity Stones. He then has the alternate Nebula impersonate her future self and time-travel to 2023, so she can use the Avengers' quantum realm technology to bring Thanos and his army to their base. After destroying the Avengers Headquarters, Thanos has an intense duel with Stark, Thor, and Rogers on the Headquarters’ ruins, during which he declares his intention to destroy the universe and repopulate it with life that only knows gratitude. After only Rogers is left standing, the restored Avengers and Guardians, together with their resurrected allies, including the Wakandan and Asgardian armies, the Masters of the Mystic Arts, and the Ravagers, arrive and engage Thanos' army in a final battle to decide the fate of the universe. During the fight, Thanos overpowers the heroes and gets hold of the Infinity Gauntlet, but before he can snap his fingers, Stark swipes the stones from him, and uses them to eliminate Thanos and his army at the cost of his own life. Thanos watches in defeat as his forces disintegrate around him before dying in the same way.

Appearances
Thanos (played by Damion Poitier and credited as "Man #1") first appears in a post-credits scene of The Avengers, where he is revealed as the Other's master and Loki's benefactor, who sent the latter to Earth to obtain the Tesseract.
He next appears in Guardians of the Galaxy, now played by Josh Brolin (who was uncredited for his role). The film introduces Thanos as "The Mad Titan", the adoptive father of Gamora and Nebula, and the benefactor of Ronan the Accuser, whom he sends to retrieve the Power Stone in exchange for an army large enough to decimate Xandar. After obtaining the stone, however, Ronan becomes corrupted by its power, and betrays Thanos to keep it for himself, threatening to kill him after he destroys Xandar. Gamora also betrays Thanos and joins the Guardians of the Galaxy, who ultimately defeat Ronan.
The character makes a cameo appearance in a post-credits scene of Avengers: Age of Ultron, donning the Infinity Gauntlet and saying "Fine, I'll do it myself."
In Avengers: Infinity War, Thanos seeks to obtain the six Infinity Stones, clashing with the Avengers and the Guardians of the Galaxy along the way. He is ultimately successful, despite the deaths of most of his soldiers and being forced to sacrifice Gamora for the Soul Stone, and uses the completed Infinity Gauntlet to eliminate half of the universe's population, believing that doing so will stabilize its overpopulation and allow the survivors to thrive. Although he is injured by Thor, Thanos survives his wound and retreats to a remote planet to finally rest.
In Avengers: Endgame, after destroying the stones to ensure his victory is not undone, Thanos is tracked down by the surviving Avengers and killed by Thor. A 2014 version of the character later learns about the Avengers' plan to undo his future success using time travel and past versions of the stones, and goes to the future with his army to obtain their replica of the Infinity Gauntlet, which he hopes to use to destroy the universe and create a new one. During the battle with the Avengers and their resurrected allies, Thanos manages to get hold of the gauntlet, but Tony Stark takes the stones away from him and uses them to decimate Thanos and his army, at the cost of his own life.
Thanos is set to appear the upcoming Disney+ animated series, What If...?, with Josh Brolin vocally reprising his role.

Reception
The MCU's rendition of Thanos has received critical acclaim. Owen Gleiberman of Variety called Brolin's performance "supremely effective" and said, "Brolin infuses Thanos with his slit-eyed manipulative glower, so that the evil in this movie never feels less than personal". Todd McCarthy echoed this sentiment, saying "Brolin's calm, considered reading of the character bestows this conquering beast with an unexpectedly resonant emotional dimension, making him much more than a thick stick figure of a supervillain" Writing for IGN, Scott Collua pointed out that audiences "understand his perspective and believe his pain", making the antagonist surprisingly sympathetic. Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised both the character and Brolin: "[Thanos is] thunderously voiced by a dynamite Josh Brolin in a motion-capture performance that radiates ferocity and unexpected feeling." The Atlantic called Thanos an "unexpectedly resonant monster, filled with sadness and even a perverse sense of honor."Critics noted that Thanos was a significant improvement over previous antagonists in the franchise. According to Screen Rant, the MCU struggled to create captivating antagonists throughout its first two phases. However, this changed in phase three with well-received villains such as Killmonger and Vulture, culminating in Thanos, whose "repudiation of the MCU's narrative worship of its heroes creates a deep uncertainty in our expectation that follows through each encounter toward the inevitable, horrifying conclusion." George Marston attributed Thanos' success to "the weight behind his character. Like the best villains in media, Thanos sees himself as a hero. It's the power of Brolin's performance that begins to draw viewers into that maniacal goal over and over, almost making Thanos seem likable or perhaps even reasonable, before the utter horror of him actually accomplishing his goal kicks in." Similarly, The Washington Post declared Thanos Marvel's most compelling villain due to his "deep, reflective intelligence" as well as his "profound adherence to his belief system".

Cultural impact
Thanos and his "snap" spawned much audience enthusiasm. The website, DidThanosKill.Me was created for fans to see if they would have been spared by Thanos or not. The ending also spawned the creation of the Reddit subreddit, /r/thanosdidnothingwrong. A user within the subreddit suggested that half of the approximately 20,000 subscribers at the time be banned from the subreddit, in order to mimic the events of the film. After the community agreed to the measure, the moderators approached Reddit's administrators to see if the mass ban would even be possible. Once the administrators agreed to the random ban of half the subscribers, it was set to occur on July 9, 2018. Notice of the impending ban made the subreddit's subscribers increase to over 700,000, including both of the Russos who subscribed. Ahead of the ban, Brolin posted a video saying "Here we go, Reddit users," and ending it with a snap. Over 60,000 people watched a live Twitch stream of the ban occurring, which lasted several hours. The ban of over 300,000 accounts, which included Anthony Russo, was the largest in Reddit's history. Those banned then gathered in the new subreddit, /r/inthesoulstone. One Reddit user who participated described the ban as embodying "the spirit of the Internet" with people "banding together, en masse, around something relatively meaningless but somehow decidedly awesome and hilarious". Andrew Tigani of Screen Rant said this showed "how impactful the film has already become to pop culture. It is also a testament to how valuable fan interaction can be via social media".A popular tongue-in-cheek fan theory regarding Thanos' defeat in Avengers: Endgame before the film's release claimed that Thanos would be killed by Ant-Man entering his anus and then expanding himself, blowing off Thanos' body (jokingly referred to by the portmanteau "Thanus"). Several internet memes were created by this. After the film was released and proved it wrong, Christopher Markus revealed that due to the strong nature of the Titans, Ant-Man would have been unable to expand himself and get simply crushed against the walls of Thanos' rectum.

See also
Characters of the Marvel Cinematic Universe
Thanos

References
External links

Thanos at Marvel Cinematic Universe Wiki
Marvel Cinematic Universe Thanos on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki