The Vision is a character portrayed by Paul Bettany in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film franchise, based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name. Vision is a vibranium-synthezoid with a body created by the villain Ultron in Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), incorporating the Mind Stone, but which was brought to sentience by Tony Stark and Bruce Banner, uploading the core software of Stark's AI, J.A.R.V.I.S., with energy provided by Thor. Vision is also featured in Captain America: Civil War (2016), Avengers: Infinity War (2018), and the Disney+ series WandaVision (2021).

Conception and characterization
A character named The Vision debuted in a short comic story in Marvel Mystery Comics #13 (Nov. 1940) as an alien law enforcement officer also known as Aarkus, continuing as a regular feature in that superhero anthology through issue #48 (Oct. 1943). In the late 1960s, editor Stan Lee and writer Roy Thomas decided to add a new team member to the superhero-team series The Avengers. Thomas wanted to bring back the Golden Age alien Vision (Aarkus) but Lee was set on introducing an android member. Thomas ultimately compromised by using a new, android Vision. The second Vision first appeared in The Avengers #57 (Oct. 1968). Thomas wanted the character to be white as befitting his ghostly name, but printing limitations of the time would have rendered him colorless, with un-inked paper where his skin should be. He settled on red as he did not want Vision to be green like the Hulk or blue like the Atlanteans. The character has been compared with Spock from Star Trek, but Thomas said that he was barely aware of the TV series at the time. He acknowledged being influenced by the Adam Link character by Otto Binder, one of the first robots treated as a sympathetic character rather than as a mechanical tool.In The Avengers #75 (April 1970), the Scarlet Witch is reintroduced to the team and soon becomes a love interest for the Vision. Thomas recounted, "I felt that a romance of some sort would help the character development in The Avengers, and the Vision was a prime candidate because he appeared only in that mag... as did Wanda, for that matter. So they became a pair, for just such practical considerations. It would also, I felt, add to the development I was doing on the Vision's attempting to become ‘human.’"

Characterization
Prior to the introduction of Vision in the MCU, Paul Bettany had voiced J.A.R.V.I.S., Tony Stark's A.I. companion in previous films. Bettany admitted that he had little idea of what the role was, even as he recorded it, simply doing it as a favor for Jon Favreau. He was cast again as the Vision, an android created by Ultron. Bettany stated that he was surprised when Whedon asked him if he wanted to be the Vision because once an actor has been cast as a particular character in the MCU, they usually are not cast as another. On what intrigued him about the Vision, Bettany said, "The thing that appealed to me is that this sort of nascent creature being born, being both omnipotent and totally naive, the sort of danger of that and complex nature of a thing being born that is that powerful and that created in a second and the choices he makes morally are really complex and interesting. They've really managed to maintain all of that". Bettany also stated that the Vision feels paternal and protective to a number of people in the film, particularly Wanda Maximoff, and has the ability to change his density. Bettany did wire work for the part. Whedon stated he wanted to include the Vision in a second Avengers film before he signed onto the first film. Bettany's make-up, which consisted of a mix of face paint and prosthetics, took two hours to apply with make-up artists Jeremy Woodhead and Nik Williams citing the correct hue of the Vision's skin as the hardest thing to figure out.Discussing the development of the character in Captain America: Civil War, Bettany noted that because the Vision was only created in the previous film, Age of Ultron, "you see my character get born... He must be both omnipotent and yet totally naive at the same time. And experiencing the world in real time and his place in it. Is he going to be a force of good or a force of evil?" Bettany also said he was interested in exploring "what it means to be human and what love is" with the character, as "The only way one can guarantee one's loyalty is love." This is exhibited in the connection Vision begins to form with Wanda Maximoff, with Bettany commenting, "They both have these new burgeoning powers that they don't understand ... I think he's worried that they're both dangerous. So he feels this real connection with her." As the Vision has the ability to create a projected disguise, he chooses to dress similarly to Howard Stark's attache, Edwin Jarvis. One review notes that "Vision is an android who gained consciousness and an affinity for love all at the same time, and so the latter is of the utmost importance to him".In WandaVision, an illusion of Vision was created by Wanda in her false reality (hex) in Westview, New Jersey. S.W.O.R.D. took Vision’s body in 2020, and in 2023, successfully reactivated him. He then got his memories of his being an Avenger and his relationship with Wanda restored by the "conditional" Vision.

Fictional character biography
Avengers: Age of Ultron
In 2015, J.A.R.V.I.S. is apparently destroyed by Ultron, but it is later revealed that he actually distributed his consciousness throughout the Internet, allowing his security protocols to delay Ultron's attempt to access Earth's nuclear launch codes long enough for Tony Stark to work out what had happened. The Avengers capture a synthetic body created by Ultron for himself, powered by the Mind Stone. Stark and Bruce Banner upload J.A.R.V.I.S. as the core software for that body. After a brief fight with other Avengers, who disagree with this effort, Thor uses his lightning to power its completion, creating Vision. Thor explains that the gem on its brow, one of the six Infinity Stones, the most powerful objects in existence, was part of a vision that he had. Having gained consciousness, Vision says that he is not a creature of Ultron, but is also no longer J.A.R.V.I.S.; Vision states that he "is on the side of life" and sides with the Avengers against Ultron. He fights the Ultron drones during the final battle in Sokovia, rescues Wanda Maximoff from the collapsing center of the city, and destroys the last Ultron drone himself. Notably, to this point, Vision is the only non-Asgardian to be able to lift Thor's hammer Mjolnir; an earlier scene establishes that this signifies that Vision is pure of heart and therefore "worthy" of lifting the hammer. In the end, after Stark, Clint Barton, Thor, and Banner leave, Steve Rogers and Natasha Romanoff lead a new roster of Avengers consisting of Wanda Maximoff, Sam Wilson, James Rhodes, and Vision.

Captain America: Civil War
In 2016, Vision sides with Stark during the titular conflict and signs the Sokovia Accords. He reasons this by remarking that the number of supernatural or highly dangerous events have increased since Stark's admitting of his secret identity and that government oversight will assist the team. This includes confining Wanda to the Avengers Headquarters. He attempts to make Wanda feel comfortable, cooking her paprikash, and starts to form a romantic relationship. Later, he  overpowers Barton who tries to break Wanda out, until she interferes, telekinetically pushing Vision beneath the Headquarters. He  is unharmed and flies to Germany to stop Rogers's team. During the fight, he aims to disable Wilson, but accidentally shoots down and cripples Rhodes, as he was distracted while tending to Wanda. Following this, he returns to the Headquarters.

Avengers: Infinity War
In 2018, Vision is now in a romantic relationship with Wanda in Scotland while using his powers to maintain a human disguise. One night, they are ambushed by Corvus Glaive and Proxima Midnight, members of the Black Order, and Vision is wounded by Glaive. They are rescued by Rogers, Wilson, and Romanoff and return to the Avengers Headquarters with Rhodes and Banner. Rogers tells them that he knows a place that would have resources to remove the Mind Stone without killing Vision. Vision accompanies the team to Wakanda, where he is operated on by Shuri. Unfortunately, the Outriders attack which prompts Wanda to intervene in the battle, leaving Shuri defenseless from Glaive, who infiltrates inside. Vision ends up fighting Glaive and falls into the forest below, and ends up killing Glaive with his own weapon. After Thanos arrives in Wakanda, Vision convinces Wanda to destroy the Mind Stone, which she does, at the cost of his life. However, Thanos uses the Time Stone to reverse the Mind Stone's destruction, allowing him to rip the Mind Stone out of Vision's head, and causing him to become deactivated.

WandaVision
In 2020, S.W.O.R.D. recovers the deactivated corpse of The Vision from Wakanda and experiments on his body at S.W.O.R.D Headquarters. In 2023, Wanda, desiring to give The Vision a burial, goes to the Headquarters only to see him being experimented on. 
After leaving the Headquarters, Wanda goes to Westview and in her grief accidentally creates a false reality, while also creating a fake "Vision" from within her (through their shared connection to the Mind Stone). In the false reality, she and Vision are married and live in a suburban neighborhood. Vision has a job at a company called Computational Services Inc., where he amazes his co-workers with his speed but is unsure what his company actually does. He invites his boss over for dinner, during which the boss chokes on his food and Vision has to use his abilities to save him. Later, Vision is shown to behave as if he is intoxicated after accidentally swallowing Big Red chewing gum, which Wanda is able to fix. After Wanda quickly progresses in her pregnancy with their twin children, Vision exhibits super speed, and momentarily appears to realize that something is not right about their surroundings. He then begins to question Wanda's role in Westview, using his powers to read the mind of one of his co-workers and discovering that person to be under mind-control. This leads to an argument between Vision and Wanda. Further suspicious, Vision investigates on his own, going to the edge of Westview and finds residents frozen in place outside their homes, including Agnes, who pretends to be under mind-control. He finds the hexagonal barrier and leaves Westview, only to be dragged to the ground and pulled back, but not before he tells S.W.O.R.D agents and Darcy Lewis that the Westview people need help. Vision is then restored after Wanda expands the false reality. After waking up, "Vision" finds Darcy in Westview and takes her out of the trance. She tells him about his past life with the Avengers and that Wanda really does love him. Upon hearing this, he leaves to go find Wanda.
Later, at a S.W.O.R.D. base outside of Westview, acting director Tyler Hayward uses Wanda's powers from a drone to reactivate The Vision, now with a white body. The white Vision goes into Westview under Hayward's orders, and finds Wanda, but not remembering her, attacks her, but is stopped by her created "Vision". They fight, with neither gaining the upper hand, until the white Vision states that "Vision" must be destroyed, to which the "Vision" created by Wanda responds that he is not the real Vision but a conditional Vision. They discuss the paradox of the Ship of Theseus, and mutually agree that both of them, in a state of being and not being, are the true Vision. Not until, "Vision" restores the white Vision's true memories as an Avenger and his love for Wanda, that he remembers he is the true Vision and flies away in order to process everything.
After Wanda takes down the hex, "Vision" learns that he is a memory of hers that was created by the Mind Stone, before disappearing.

Appearance and special effects
A review of the character for The Hollywood Reporter notes: "The comic book Vision employs a garish green-and-yellow costume, matched with a bright red face — a color scheme that may be a little over-the-top for the more subtly-hued Marvel Cinematic Universe — but even so, the mixture of purple, blue and grey is an unexpected, and unexpectedly bold, choice for Paul Bettany's character".In terms of fashion while maintaining a civilian appearance, Vision attempts to emulate classic human style, including wearing an ascot tie.In 2023, Vision is reactivated and has a new appearance of a white body.

Reception
In 2016, Bettany was nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in Avengers: Age of Ultron. A review of the 2021 television series, WandaVision states that "Olsen and Bettany's characters were often treated like benchwarmers on an all-star team in the Avengers movies. Here, they really shine". The review further finds that Bettany "slides easily into the role of the devoted, kinda square, goofball husband", and praises his physical comedy skills.

Notes
References
External links
Vision at Marvel Cinematic Universe Wiki
Marvel Cinematic Universe Vision on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki
Vision Biography - Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) - Marvel Studios Official Web Site