Wanda Maximoff is a character portrayed by Elizabeth Olsen in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) media franchise who is based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name (more commonly known as the Scarlet Witch). As of 2021, Wanda has frequently appeared in MCU films, including Captain America: The Winter Soldier (uncredited cameo, 2014), Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), Captain America: Civil War (2016), Avengers: Infinity War (2018), Avengers: Endgame (2019), the Disney+ miniseries WandaVision (2021), and the upcoming Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness (2022).

Background
Scarlet Witch debuted, together with her brother, Quicksilver, as a part of the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants in X-Men #4 (March 1964). They were depicted as reluctant villains, uninterested in Magneto's ideologies. Scarlet Witch was depicted as introverted and disdainful of her teammates. 
Stan Lee wrote the Avengers comic book, composed of the label's most prominent heroes. He eventually removed all of them, save for Captain America, and replaced them with villains from other comics: the Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver from the X-Men, and Hawkeye from Iron Man's adventures in Tales of Suspense. The team was known as "Cap's Kooky Quartet." Although common in later years, such a change in the roster of a superhero group was completely unprecedented. Some years later, Avengers writer Roy Thomas started a long-running romantic relationship between the Scarlet Witch and the Vision, considering that it would help with the series' character development. He selected those characters because they were only published in the Avengers comic book, so it would not interfere with other publications.Steve Englehart succeeded Thomas as the writer of the Avengers. He gave her a more assertive personality, removed Quicksilver, and expanded her powers by turning her into an apprentice of witchcraft. The Vision and the Scarlet Witch married in Giant-Size Avengers #4 (June 1975), at the end of the Celestial Madonna arc. The couple starred in a limited series of four issues, The Vision and the Scarlet Witch (1982–83), by writer Bill Mantlo and penciller Rick Leonardi. The series returned in 1985 with twelve issues written by Steve Englehart and pencilled by Richard Howell. In this series, Scarlet Witch becomes pregnant magically and delivers two sons. After the loss of her children in West Coast Avengers, and the destruction of the Avengers in the Avengers Disassembled (2004-2005) storyline, House of M saw Scarlet Witch suffering a mental breakdown and creating a reality where mutants ruled over humans, followed by one where the mutant gene was largely removed. In later years, the Young Avengers Wiccan and Speed were discovered to be her reincarnated children, and Scarlet Witch comics focused on the witchcraft aspect of her powers.

Adaptation and appearances
In the 1990s, Marvel licensed the filming rights of the X-Men and related concepts, such as mutants, to 20th Century Fox. Fox created a film series based on the franchise. Years later, Marvel started its own film franchise, the Marvel Cinematic Universe, focused on the characters that they had not licensed to other studios, such as the Avengers. The main core of this franchise was the Avengers, both in standalone films and the successful The Avengers film. Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch were disputed by both studios. Fox would claim the rights over them because they were both mutants and children of Magneto, the villain of most of their films, and Marvel would claim those rights because the editorial history of the characters in comic books is more associated with the Avengers rather than the X-Men. The studios made an agreement so that both of them would use the characters. It was made on the condition that the plots do not make reference to the other studio's properties: the Fox films cannot mention them as members of the Avengers, and the Marvel films cannot mention them as mutants or children of Magneto. Despite this deal, films in the Fox X-Men series did not feature Scarlet Witch.In May 2013, it was reported that Joss Whedon considered Saoirse Ronan to be his "prototype" actress for the part, but by August of that year, Elizabeth Olsen had been cast for the role. Olsen has since played Wanda Maximoff in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Olsen noted that when Joss Whedon offered her the role, he said "[wh]en you go home and Google her, just know you will never ever have to wear what she wears in the comics", and, in keeping with this, Maximoff's comic book costume was ignored in favor of more casual clothing. She first appeared, as well as Quicksilver, in a mid-credits scene of the 2014 film Captain America: The Winter Soldier as a prisoner of Baron Strucker (Thomas Kretschmann). Scarlet Witch became a supporting character in the 2015 film Avengers: Age of Ultron, where the siblings initially conspire with Ultron (James Spader) but later defect to the Avengers. Quicksilver dies in the ensuing conflict while Wanda goes on to become a member of Captain America's Avengers. She appears in the 2016 film Captain America: Civil War. Both Olsen and Aaron Taylor-Johnson signed multi-picture deals. Olsen reprises the role in the 2018 film Avengers: Infinity War and its 2019 sequel Avengers: Endgame and will appear in the upcoming film Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness. In the films, her powers are telekinetic and telepathic abilities, which she gained by volunteering as a test subject in Hydra experiments to create supersoldiers, by exposing her to the Mind Stone. Therefore, both she and her brother are described in the films as "enhanced humans," as opposed to the naturally-occurring Mutants they are in the comics.
In September 2018, it was reported that Marvel Studios was developing several limited series for Disney's streaming service, Disney+, to be centered on "second tier" characters from the Marvel Cinematic Universe films who had not and were unlikely to star in their own films, such as Scarlet Witch, with Elizabeth Olsen expected to reprise her role. The title of this show was later announced in 2018 to be WandaVision, co-starring Paul Bettany as the Vision. It premiered in January 2021. As the show is premised on Maximoff and Vision appearing in a sitcom (apparently constructed by Maximoff to escape her grief over Vision's real-world death), her appearance throughout the series reflects the clothing styles of sitcom characters across different decades of the genre. By the finale, having fully embraced her identity as the Scarlet Witch, Maximoff gains a new costume reflecting a more modern version of her comic counterpart.

Characterization
Wanda is first fully introduced in Avengers: Age of Ultron as the twin sister of Pietro Maximoff who can engage in hypnosis and telekinesis. Olsen felt Wanda was "overly stimulated" rather than "mentally insane" because "she has such a vast amount of knowledge that she's unable to learn how to control it. No one taught her how to control it properly... she can connect to this world and parallel worlds at the same time, and parallel times." Describing her character's mind control powers, Olsen said that the character is able to do more than manipulating someone's mind, with Scarlet Witch able to "feel and see what they feel and see" by projecting visions that they have never seen. Olsen expanded upon this, saying, "What I love about her is that, in so many superhero films, emotions are kind of negated a bit, but for her everything that someone else could feel—like their weakest moments—she physically goes through that same experience with them, which is pretty cool." Olsen drew on her relationship with her older brother and her sisters to prepare for the role, as well as looking to the comics for inspiration. Olsen revealed that Whedon was inspired by dancers as a way to visually represent how the character moves. As such, Olsen mostly trained with dancer Jennifer White in lieu of traditional stunt training.In Captain America: Civil War, Wanda allies with Steve Rogers against the Sokovia Accords. According to Olsen, the character is "coming into her own and starting to understand and have conflict with how she wants to use her abilities." As such, Wanda's costume was "relatively casual" and "more clothes-based than superhero-based" according to Makovsky, since the Russo brothers believed Wanda was not a full-fledged Avenger yet. When asked about the relationship between her character and the Vision compared to the comics, Olsen said, "You learn a little bit more about what connects [Scarlet and Vision] in this film. And I think there's some really sweet moments between Paul and I, and it's more about how they relate to one another and their similarities just based on their superpowers."In Avengers: Infinity War, Olsen explains that Wanda and Vision have maintained a romance while Wanda remains in hiding and are "trying to within that time find points of meeting in different places in order to try and forward our relationship." Paul Bettany described it as the most emotional arc for the characters. In early drafts of Infinity War and Endgame, the screenwriters had Wanda survive the snap and participate more substantially in the events of Endgame, while still mourning Vision, but this angle was ultimately dropped because "she'd gotten so much mileage and story in the first movie that she didn't really have anything that equaled that in the second."

Fictional character biography
Childhood
Born in 1989, Wanda grew up with her twin brother Pietro Maximoff and her parents in an apartment in the fictional country Sokovia in Eastern Europe during a war. As a child, she enjoyed watching American sitcoms, which her father sold as DVD boxed sets. The family also practiced speaking English in the household, hoping to someday leave their war-torn country and migrate to America. After a missile blew up their apartment and killed their parents, Wanda and Pietro were stuck inside the damaged building for two days after a second Stark Industries missile flew in. However, the missile never went off as Wanda had unknowingly cast a probability hex, turning the missile into a dud. When the twins were young adults, they volunteered as test subjects for Hydra. After being exposed to the Mind Stone, Wanda's powers were amplified and greater enhanced.

Captain America: The Winter Soldier
In 2014, Wanda is introduced as a volunteer test subject in a Hydra facility in Sokovia commanded by Baron Wolfgang von Strucker. She and Pietro are the sole survivors of Strucker's experiments using the scepter.

Avengers: Age of Ultron
In 2015, the Avengers—Tony Stark, Steve Rogers, Thor, Bruce Banner, Natasha Romanoff, and Clint Barton—raid Strucker's Hydra facility and encounter Wanda and Pietro, with Wanda using her telepathic abilities to interfere with their attack. Stark and Banner subsequently use an artificial intelligence within the scepter's gem to complete Stark's "Ultron" global defense program, and the unexpectedly sentient Ultron, believing he must eradicate humanity to save Earth, recruits Wanda and Pietro, who hold Stark responsible for their parents' deaths by his company's weapons. The Avengers attack Ultron in Johannesburg, but Wanda subdues them with haunting visions, causing Banner to turn into the Hulk and rampage through the city. Ultron travels to Seoul and uses the scepter to enslave Dr. Helen Cho, using her synthetic-tissue technology, vibranium, and the Mind Stone to craft a new body. As Ultron uploads himself into the body, Wanda reads his mind and discovers his plan for human extinction. She and Pietro turn against Ultron and join the Avengers at the Avengers Tower. After Stark, Banner, and Thor cooperate to turn the captured synthetic body into the "Vision", Wanda and Pietro join the Avengers to Sokovia, where Ultron has used the remaining vibranium to build a machine to lift a large part of the capital city skyward, intending to crash it into the ground to cause global extinction. Barton befriends Wanda and encourages her to join the Avengers in the fight against Ultron. Wanda senses Pietro’s death and abandons her post to destroy Ultron's primary body, which allows one of his drones to activate the machine. Vision rescues Wanda from the collapsing center of the city. Afterwards, the Avengers establish a new team roster at the Avengers Compound led by Rogers and Romanoff, featuring Wanda, Vision, James Rhodes, and Sam Wilson.
Later, Vision visits Wanda in her bedroom to comfort her over Pietro's death and they watch a sitcom television show together.

Captain America: Civil War
In 2016, Rogers, Romanoff, Wilson, and Wanda stop Brock Rumlow from stealing a biological weapon from a lab in Lagos. Rumlow blows himself up, attempting to kill Rogers, but Wanda telekinetically contains the explosion and throws it upward, accidentally killing several Wakandan humanitarian workers, to her dismay. As a result, U.S. Secretary of State Thaddeus Ross informs the Avengers that the United Nations (UN) is preparing to pass the Sokovia Accords, which will establish a UN panel to oversee and control the team. Wanda is restricted by Stark to remain at the Avengers Compound, where she is watched over by Vision who attempts to comfort her and the two begin to develop romantic feelings for each other. Rogers and Wilson go rogue to aid Bucky Barnes and send Barton to retrieve Wanda, who rejects Vision's attempts to stop her and goes with Barton. They pick up Scott Lang and meet Rogers's team at Leipzig/Halle Airport in Germany, but are intercepted by Stark's team where they fight until Romanoff allows Rogers and Barnes to escape. Wanda, Barton, Lang, and Wilson are captured and detained at the Raft, until Rogers breaks them out.

Avengers: Infinity War
In 2018, Wanda and Vision have begun a romantic relationship while living off the grid in Edinburgh. They are ambushed by Proxima Midnight and Corvus Glaive, members of the Children of Thanos sent to retrieve the Mind Stone. Rogers, Romanoff, and Wilson rescue them and take them to the Avengers Compound, meeting with Rhodes and Banner. Vision asks Wanda to destroy the Stone, but she refuses. Rogers suggests they travel to Wakanda, which he believes has the resources to remove the Stone without destroying Vision. As Shuri works to extract the Mind Stone from Vision, Wanda is tasked to stay and watch over Vision until the Stone is out. After the Outriders invade and overwhelm the Avengers on the battlefield, Wanda leaves her post to help her teammates, also killing Midnight. She witnesses the arrival of Thanos and is forced to destroy the Mind Stone and Vision, but Thanos uses the Time Stone to reverse her actions. He rips the repaired Mind Stone from Vision's forehead, deactivating him. Thanos activates the completed Infinity Gauntlet, snaps his fingers, and Wanda disintegrates.

Avengers: Endgame
In 2023, Wanda is restored to life  and is brought to the destroyed Avengers Compound to join the final battle against an alternate Thanos. Wanda confronts him directly, destroying his sword, and forcing him to order his warship to fire on the battlefield. She assists Carol Danvers as she tries to return the gauntlet. After the battle, Wanda attends Stark's funeral and reunites with Barton.

WandaVision
Two weeks after being restored to life, Wanda drove to S.W.O.R.D. Headquarters to retrieve Vision's body. After meeting with S.W.O.R.D acting director Tyler Hayward, she is shown Vision being experimented on and realizes she can no longer sense him. She drives to Westview, New Jersey to view a vacant lot Vision purchased for the two "to grow old in" prior to 2018. Overcome with grief, Wanda accidentally unleashes waves of chaos magic that transform Westview into a sitcom-themed false reality hex with a hexagonal barrier. She materializes a new “Vision” that lacks any prior memories and starts living in the hex, where they are newly-married and try to live their ideal suburban life. A week later, Wanda attempts to befriend her neighbors while occasionally needing to conceal her and Vision's powers. She soon becomes visibly pregnant. When she and Vision see a S.W.O.R.D agent emerging from a manhole on their street, Wanda resets the time. Later, as Wanda's pregnancy progresses, she is visited by "Geraldine" (Monica Rambeau) and gives birth to twin boys Tommy and Billy. She mentions that she was also a twin, prompting "Geraldine" to recall Pietro's death. After Wanda sees "Geraldine's" pendant with a sword emblem on it, she casts her out of Westview. When Vision returns in the house, he appears as a corpse before being reset by Wanda. As Wanda's children age rapidly, S.W.O.R.D. sends a drone into Westview and attempts to kill Wanda on the orders of Hayward. Enraged, Wanda walks out of Westview with the drone warning Hayward to leave her alone. Monica, seeing Wanda as an ally, tells her she can help but Wanda says she has what she wants. Wanda leaves them, fortifies the hexagonal barrier, and re-enters Westview. Back in Westview, Wanda and Vision argue about what is really going on, but are interrupted when "Pietro" (a man that claims to be her brother) appears. During a Halloween festival, Wanda reveals to "Pietro" that she doesn't know what happened to her, except that she felt alone and empty, which seemingly made her create the hex. After she learns Vision breached the hexagonal barrier, she expands the hex.
Due to expanding the hex, Wanda starts losing control of it and is surprised to see Monica again in Westview, who attempts to warn her about Hayward. Before they can talk any further, Wanda's neighbor "Agnes" interrupts them and takes Wanda to her house, only to lure her into an underground demonic lair where she reveals her true identity as the sorceress Agatha Harkness. Agatha then puts her under a trance, leading Wanda through her past. She is forced to relive her memories of trauma and what she had lost throughout her life from her parents' death, her brother's death, Vision, and her new home at the Avengers Compound. Agatha releases her from the trance and Wanda leaves Agatha's house only to find her holding Tommy and Billy captive on the street. Agatha then tells her that she is a powerful being capable of spontaneous creation who can harness chaos magic, and reveals that she is in fact the mythical entity known as the Scarlet Witch. Wanda attacks Agatha, who reveals that her magical ability is absorbing magical power, and frees Tommy and Billy. Wanda is then met by the reactivated real Vision who, not remembering who she is, attacks her, but the hex “Vision” fends him off. She goes into Westview’s town square and is attacked by Agatha, who frees the Westview residents from the hex. Overwhelmed by the residents demanding answers, Wanda accidentally loses control of her powers and chokes them. Agatha informs her about a chapter in the Darkhold devoted to her, as she mentions how Wanda is even more powerful than the Sorcerer Supreme, and can destroy the world as the "Harbinger of Chaos". Horrified, Wanda starts bringing down the hex, but restores it when hex Vision, Tommy, and Billy start fading away. S.W.O.R.D. agents and Hayward arrive in Westview with weaponised Humvees, and after Agatha attacks some agents, Wanda saves them, and pursues her on top of a building. There Wanda tries to trap Agatha in a hallucination of 1693 Salem, but it backfires. Agatha breaks free from the hallucination and Wanda blasts her, but Agatha retaliates by absorbing her magic energy and life force. Taking the fight into the sky, Agatha attempts to kill Wanda, but finds that her powers no longer work. Wanda reveals that she imprinted protection runes on the boundaries of the hex, effectively rendering Agatha powerless. Wanda ultimately claims her true identity as the Scarlet Witch, and imprisons Agatha in Westview as “Agnes” after informing her that she'll be back if she needs her. She takes down the hex and tearfully says goodbye to Tommy, Billy, and hex Vision. Standing in the empty house lot, she walks into the town square and meets with Monica. Monica tells her she isn’t upset for all she caused and that she understands Wanda's rationale. She and Monica say goodbye and Wanda flies away from Westview.
Thereafter, Wanda goes into hiding, living remotely in a mountainside cabin. There she studies the Darkhold while in her astral form in order to learn more about her powers, however, she suddenly stops when she hears what appears to be Tommy and Billy calling out for her help.

Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness
Powers and abilities
Wanda has the ability to harness magic, which typically presents itself in telekinesis, telepathy, and energy manipulation/projection.In Avengers: Age of Ultron, Wanda’s powers are mostly telekinetic and semi-telepathic. She is shown moving objects with her mind and engaging in hypnosis, inducing nightmarish-like images into the heads of four Avengers. She also displays moments of energy projection, including when she took out an army of Ultron’s drones with a wave of energy and created energy shields to protect herself and Sokovian citizens from the crossfire.
In Captain America: Civil War, Wanda's powers have advanced and her telekinesis is strong enough to let her hold up the debris of a falling building as well as allow her to engage in hovering in the air. Her energy manipulation now allows her to, in a fight with Vision, forcibly manipulate his density. 
In Avengers: Infinity War, Wanda is capable of throwing energy bolts. Vision reveals that due to Wanda's powers being linked to the Mind Stone, she is able to use her powers to destroy it, which she later does. She also is shown to be able to telepathically communicate with the Stone when she tries to figure out why Vision is in pain. In Wakanda, she was able to lift and release large alien threshers  with her powers. 
In her brief appearance in Avengers: Endgame, Wanda is able to lift large pieces of rubble from the destroyed Avengers Headquarters and hurl it at Thanos, as well as breaking his sword in half, which has already been shown to be stronger than vibranium. She is able to levitate Thanos into the air and strip portions of his armor off, until he disrupts her efforts by ordering a blitz. 
The live-action series WandaVision explores her ability to warp reality like her comic counterpart. Wanda releases waves of chaos magic which accidentally creates a reinforced CMBR force-field (known as “The Maximoff Anomaly” or “The Hex”) over the town of Westview, New Jersey, rewriting everything and everyone inside to be part of her own fictional reality that presents itself as a television sitcom. The rewrite occurs on a molecular level, meaning her powers allow her to manipulate molecules. Darcy Lewis informs Monica Rambeau that her DNA is being molecularly rewritten after she passed through the CMBR field, and Rambeau develops light-related superhuman abilities after entering the CMBR field a third time. Later, it is revealed that Wanda was born as a witch and would unknowingly engage in basic hex magic as a child. During a trip through her memories with Agatha, Wanda's parents were killed by a missile in their apartment, a second one from Stark Industries came in. Wanda used a simple probability hex to turn the missile into a dud, saving her and Pietro. However, the two were unaware this was because of Wanda. After HYDRA testing with the Mind Stone, her powers were enhanced. Agatha tells Wanda that she is the only person who is able to engage in chaos magic, making her the mythical Scarlet Witch.
As she begins to fight Agatha, she embraces her true self, manifesting many new magical abilities such as teleportation, rune-casting and power absorption, with her energy blasts also becoming more concentrated. She has significantly better control over her magic, being able to consciously manipulate reality with ease, such as instantly altering her clothes into her uniform and reverting Agatha back into 'Agnes', this time truly under her will. Wanda is later shown having cast an illusion of herself leading a quiet life in the rural mountains, while she secretly masters her abilities with the Darkhold now in her possession.

Differences from the comics
Maximoff in the MCU initially "possesses a drastically different powerset to her comic book counterpart," having been described less as a wielder of actual magic and more as "a Jean Grey analogue, gifted with both telepathic and telekinetic powers," with her abilities in the MCU being derived at least in part from experiments in which she was exposed to the Mind Stone. As of 2019, Magneto and other characters from the X-Men franchise have not been introduced into the MCU because Marvel Studios didn't own the rights for the X-Men until early 2019, and therefore no mention has been made of Maximoff's traditional depiction as the daughter of Magneto.In addition, the Maximoff twins have been depicted as Romani characters in Marvel Comics since 1979. They were ethnically ambiguous for the first 15 years of their publication history, after which they were shown to have been adopted and raised by a Romani couple. It was later revealed that their biological father was Magneto and their mother was Magda Eisenhardt, a Romani woman he met in a concentration camp during World War II.
In a later ret-con, Wanda and Pietro discover that Magneto was not their father after all, and they are not mutants. Their mother was actually Natalya Maximoff, the biological sister of the twins' adoptive father. She passed on the title "The Scarlet Witch" to her daughter, and the biological father is assumed to also be from the Romani community. This makes the twins fully Romani by blood.However in WandaVision, she is revealed to be a powerful sorceress, the only being currently capable of wielding chaos magic. The series explores her ability to manipulate reality like her comic counterpart. 
While it is maintained that her abilities emerged from the Mind Stone, she is retconned into having possessed the latent ability to wield Chaos Magic since birth, and the Mind Stone simply unlocked these dormant abilities while giving her the additional powers she has been seen using up until Avengers: Endgame.

Reception
Following the release of Avengers: Endgame, Rachel Leishman of the feminist "geek site" The Mary Sue wrote that Maximoff "isn't the most fleshed out of characters because she is often tied down to a male character and very rarely does anything but kill people accidentally," but that Avengers: Infinity War provided "the Wanda Maximoff who understands her placement among the Avengers and her abilities," and by Avengers: Endgame, Maximoff is "taking on her position as one of the new leaders of the Avengers." A review of the subsequent television miniseries, WandaVision states that "Olsen and Bettany's characters were often treated like benchwarmers on an all-star team in the Avengers movies. Here, they really shine".

Accolades
See also
Characters of the Marvel Cinematic Universe

Notes
References
External links
Scarlet Witch at Marvel Cinematic Universe Wiki
Marvel Cinematic Universe Wanda Maximoff on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki
Scarlet Witch (Wanda Maximoff) Biography - Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) - Marvel Studios Official Web Site