Yellowjacket is the name of several fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
Corey Stoll portrayed the Darren Cross incarnation of the character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Ant-Man (2015).

Fictional character biography
Hank Pym
Dr. Henry "Hank" Pym, who has had several other superhero identies, including Ant-Man, Giant-Man and Goliath, is the first character to take on the Yellowjacket codename. The character has been associated with several superhero teams in the Marvel Universe, including the Avengers and the Defenders.

Rita DeMara
Rita DeMara is the second character to go by the Yellowjacket codename. She debuted as a supervillainess, joining supervillain groups. She later becomes a superheroine, joining the Guardians of the Galaxy's ranks. She is killed by Immortus, but is later resurrected.

Darren Cross
Darren Cross is the third character to use the Yellowjacket codename, after gaining the costume thanks to Egghead, and also became a supervillain.

Other versions
Ultimate Marvel
The original Ultimate Marvel incarnation of Yellowjacket is Ultron, a robot designed to be an expendable super soldier. Ultron is later killed by Hank Pym who later takes up the Yellowjacket mantle, wanting to make up for what his creation did.

In other media
Television
The Hank Pym iteration of Yellowjacket makes his animated debut in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes, voiced by Wally Wingert.
The Darren Cross iteration of Yellowjacket appears in Lego Marvel Super Heroes: Avengers Reassembled, voiced by Travis Willingham.
The Darren Cross iteration of Yellowjacket appears in Disney XD's Ant-Man animated shorts, voiced by William Salyers.

Film
In the 2015 Marvel Studios film Ant-Man, Darren Cross (Corey Stoll) builds the Yellowjacket suit to sell to Hydra and the Ten Rings, and later wears the prototype himself.

Video games
The Hank Pym iteration of Yellowjacket appears as a boss character in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 2, voiced by Wally Wingert.
The Hank Pym iteration of Yellowjacket appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2.
The Marvel Cinematic Universe iteration of Yellowjacket appears in Marvel: Avengers Alliance, Marvel: Contest of Champions, Marvel: Future Fight and Lego Marvel's Avengers.


== References ==